--- Page 1 ---
01. Manual Testing Workflow  
1. Tester Responsibilities (*)  
1. Defining Test Scenarios Workflow (*)  
1. How to generate test scenarios with AI - UiPath Test Manager (*)  
▪ Steps to follow in Test Manager  
▪ Prompts in Test Manager  
▪ AI-Generated Test Scenarios Evaluation Guide  
▪ Saving test scenarios in Test Manager and sending them to JIRA  
▪ Steps to follow in Jira  
2. Creating tests in Xray (*)  
▪ Archiving LXs (*)  
▪ Call Test (*)  
1. Test Scenarios: rules and structure (*)  
1. Positive LXs (*)  
2. Negative LXs (*)  
3. Regression LXs (*)  
4. UI\UX LXs (*)  
5. Smoke LXs (*)  
6. Non-functional LXs (*)  
4. LX Priorities (*)  
5. Validating LXs \Test Scenarios (*)  
1. What does validating LXs \test scenarios mean? (*)  
2. Validating LXs \test scenarios workflow (*)  
3. To whom are the scenarios sent for validation (*)  
6. Create Defining Scenarios sub -task (*)  
7. Adding LX to the Defining Scenarios Subtask (*)  
2. Manual Test Scenarios Definition Workflow (*)  
2. Executing Test Scenarios Workflow (*)  
1. Create Sub test execution and Transition (*)  
1. Adding LXs to Sub Test Execution (*)  
2. UAT Testing (*)  
3. Smoke Testing (*)  
--- Page 2 ---
4. PRL (Prelive) Testing (*)  
5. Regression Testing (*)  
3. Bugs Workflow (*)  
1. What is a Bug (*)  
1. Types of bugs / "Category" Field (*)  
2. Examples of bugs (*)  
3. Reporting a Bug in Jira (*)  
▪ Bug reporting during the execution of an LX (*)  
▪ Bug reporting at Scrum/Jira Project level ( -) 
4. Bug Categories (*)  
▪ Performance Bug (*)  
▪ Improvement Bug ( -) 
▪ Legacy Bug (*)  
▪ Regression Bug (*)  
▪ Smoke Bug (*)  
▪ Incomplete specifications Bug ( -) 
▪ Integrated Testing Bug  
▪ UI/UX Bug (*)  
4. Retesting a bug fix (*)  
5. Jira Bugs Workflow (*)  
4. Incidents Workflow (*)  
1. What is an Incident? (*)  
1. Defining Test Scenarios for Incidents (*)  
2. Executing Test Scenarios for Incidents (*)  
3. Jira Incidents Workflow ( -) 
▪ Reporting an Incident (*)  
5. Working with Xray Library (Xray Test Repository) (*)  
▪ Creating folder/subfolders in Scrum projects  
▪ Rules \Structure for the Xray Library (*)  
▪ Flows/functionalities/sections subfolders  
▪ Smoke Tests Subfolder  
▪ Regression tests subfolders  
--- Page 3 ---
▪ Test Manager Drafts Subfolder  
▪ Archived tests subfolders  
▪ Filtering LXs in Xray  
6. Regression Testing Workflow (*)  
1. Smoke Tests Workflow (*)  
1. What are Smoke Tests (*)  
2. Defining Smoke tests (*)  
1. How to create Smoke tests in Jira \Xray (*)  
3. Smoke Tests Execution (*)  
4. Smoke Tests Bug Reporting (*)  
2. Regression Tests Workflow (*)  
1. What are Regression Tests? (*)  
2. Defining Regression Test Scenarios ( -) 
1. Initial Elicitation of Business Flows from the Product 
Owner ( -) 
2. Evaluating existing tests for Regression (*)  
3. How to create regression tests in Jira/Xray (*)  
4. Regression tests priority (*)  
5. Orientation guide for regression test priorities (*)  
3. Regression Tests for new implementations (*)  
4. Regression Tests Execution (*)  
▪ Guide for the Tester - Best practices for Regression Test Cases ( -) 
▪ Scenarios validation (optional for regression tests) ( -) 
7. Agile \SCRUM Workflow (*)  
1. What is Agile \SCRUM?  
1. What is a User Story?  
2. Ceremonies in Agile \SCRUM  
3. Components of a User Story  
4. The role of a Tester in Agile \SCRUM  
1. Defining Test Scenarios workflow in Agile \SCRUM  
2. Executing Test Scenarios workflow in Agile \SCRUM  
3. Bug Reporting in Agile \SCRUM  
--- Page 4 ---
4. DEMO Presentation in Agile \SCRUM  
▪ DEMO Checklist  
▪ DEMO Preview  
1. Flow validation - DEMO Preview e -mail  
2. Flow validation - DEMO Preview meeting  
▪ Best practices for DEMO  
▪ Standard structure for DEMO presentation  
▪ Definition of Done - informative  
▪ How do we hold a demo?  
▪ Estimates in Agile \SCRUM (Story Points Estimation)  
▪ Meetings within Agile/Scrum teams  
8. Waterfall Workflow (*)  
1. What is Waterfall? (*)  
1. What is a Task in Waterfall? (*)  
2. Testing Process in Waterfall (*)  
3. The role of a tester in Waterfall projects (*)  
1. Defining test scenarios in Waterfall (*)  
2. Executing Test Scenarios in Waterfall (*)  
3. Bug Reporting in Waterfall (*)  
4. Waterfall Estimates - Projects \ICDs (*)  
9. Mobile Testing Workflow ( -) 
1. Defining Mobile Testing Test Scenarios ( -) 
2. Executing Mobile Testing Scenarios ( -) 
3. Mobile Testing Bugs Reporting ( -) 
▪ ApowerMirror  
▪ Smartwatch testing ( -) 
▪ UI\UX Testing for Mobile ( -) 
▪ UI\UX Mobile Testing Orientation Guide \Checklist ( -) 
10. Logging time in Jira (*)  
▪ Logging in Jira tasks outside the team \project  
11. Scrum teams back -up system workflow (*)  
1. Allocations primary team vs secondary team  
--- Page 5 ---
12. Integrated Testing Workflow  
1. Create Integrated testing issue type  
2. Create Xray sub -folder  
3. Defining scenarios  
4. UAT Integrated testing  
5. PRL Integrated testing  
6. Integrated Testing Bug Reporting  
13. Testing Technical Tasks Workflow  
1. Exploratory Testing Task ( -) 
2. Update Regression \Smoke Tests Suite Task  
3. Execute Regression Tests on area Task  
4. Business Flows Testing Documentation Task  
5. Analysis Task  
6. Testing processes improvement Task  
7. Automation Testing activities Task  
• 02. Guides for specific testing types  
o  
3. Guide \Workflow using AI  
1. Creating test cases using AI  
▪ Chrome DevTools Recorder  
▪ UiPath Test Manager  
2. How to split LX type tests into smaller Test Cases using AI  
▪ Planview \Tasktop Configuration  
▪ Bug Generation from Google Chrome Developer Tools - Network using AI  
▪ Linking Test Manager drafts to Xray folders  
▪ UiPath Test Manager Workflow - Creatio Client Opening Pilot  
▪ UiPath Test Manager Workflow - Digital team Pilot  
▪ Useful Prompts  
▪ Proposal for Manual -Automation Testing workflow in teams  
o API Testing  
o Windows Game Bar screen \video capture  
o Database Testing  
--- Page 6 ---
o Business Testing  
• 03. Test Manager and Jira integration from Plan View  
1. Test Manager -Uipath  
2. Jira Integration from Plan View  
• Automation Testing  
• Useful Information  
  
--- Page 7 ---
01. Manual Testing Workflow  
( * ) - Everything marked with this symbol is validated and applied as a working procedure.  
( - ) - Everything marked with this symbol is currently being drafted and is not an applied working procedure.  
001. Tester Responsibilities (*)  
• Complies with the working procedure described in 01. Manual Testing Workflow - QA - Confluence.  
• Analyzes and understands the functional requirements and specifications;  
• Tests the incidents for which they are the Reporter or which are assigned to them by the Product Owner 
of the team they are part of, according to 04. Incidents Workflow (*).  
• Tests the User Stories assigned within the team they are part of in both the UAT test environment and 
Prelive, according to 07. Agile \SCRUM Workflow ( ) and 11. Scrum teams back -up system workflow 
(). 
• Validates the builds that have reached the Prelive environment by executing Smoke tests at the 
project \Epic level 01. Smoke Tests Workflow (*).  
• Ensures the quality of the tested applications by executing regression tests in the Prelive environment 
at the project \Epic level 02. Regression Tests Workflow (*).  
• Participates in specific meetings: Daily Scrum, Sprint Planning, Sprint Review, Sprint Retrospective, 
and analysis meetings according to 07. Agile \SCRUM Workflow (*).  
• Updates the statuses for the tasks/sub -tasks/User Stories assigned to them according to 01. Defining 
Test Scenarios Workflow ( ), 02. Executing Test Scenarios Workflow ( ), 03. Bugs Workflow ( ), 04. 
Incidents Workflow ( ), 06. Regression Testing Workflow (*).  
• Requests clarifications from the Business Analyst when necessary to know that they are validating the 
agreed behavior;  
• Defines test scenarios in accordance with the specifications mentioned on the user stories and the 
working procedure from Confluence, populating and updating the test scenario library. Whenever 
specifications change, or during testing, updates the test sce narios according to 01. Defining Test 
Scenarios Workflow (*).  
• Transmits the test scenarios for validation to the Product Owner, the Application Owner, and the 
Project Beneficiary according to 05. Validating LXs \Test Scenarios (*).  
• Reports time daily in Jira according to 10. Logging time in Jira (*).  
• Reports in Jira the defects resulting from the testing performed and re -tests the fixes according to 03. 
Bugs Workflow (*).  
• Holds the Demo meeting for presenting the testing results to the Product Owner, the Application 
Owner, the Project Beneficiary, the Marketing division, and the designer, on the projects where they 
were involved in order to obtain acceptance according to 04 . DEMO Presentation in Agile \SCRUM.  
• Provides detailed estimates for the testing effort according to Estimates in Agile \SCRUM (Story Points 
Estimation) and 04. Waterfall Estimates - Projects \ICDs (*).  
• Understands the application they are testing from the end -user's perspective.  
• Has the responsibility to understand the KPIs, to reach the KPI targets monthly.  
--- Page 8 ---
• Has the responsibility to understand the Monthly Productivity Report and to expose any issue found 
in the report.  
• Escalates any issue to their Team Lead: announces blockages on testing activities or any other situation 
that arises that can delay the completion of the tested project. Sends an email to 
TLTesting@librabank.ro, and escalates any element that appears durin g the Testing activity and affects 
the deadline.  
• Has the responsibility to ensure activity in Terramind.  
• Has the responsibility to ensure they always have testing activity in the team they are allocated to, but 
also in their back -up team, according to 00. Scrum teams back -up system workflow - QA - Confluence.  
01. Defining Test Scenarios Workflow (*)  
This page documents the working procedure regarding the definition of test scenarios for applications and 
functionalities developed within SCRUM or Waterfall teams.  
The purpose is to ensure consistency, traceability, and efficiency in creating, reviewing, and maintaining test 
scenarios, whether they are generated manually or with the help of AI tools.  
Objectives  
• Aligning the team on how to create and document test scenarios.  
• Reducing the time required to define tests by using AI for automatic generation.  
• Increasing functional coverage and testing quality through clear, complete, and easily updatable 
scenarios.  
The definition of test scenarios is done using AI, described here: 01. A AI test scenario generation workflow - 
UIPath (draft) - QA - Confluence.  
If for any reason UiPath Test Manager cannot be used, the Team Leader must be notified, and then the test 
scenarios must be defined manually, described here: 01. B Manual Test Scenarios Definition Workflow (*) - 
QA - Confluence.  
 
  
--- Page 9 ---
01. How to generate test scenarios with AI - UiPath Test Manager (*)  
 Accessing the Scrum team's project from the UIPath Test Manager module  
Can be done in two ways:  
• from Jira  
• by accessing the UIPath application URL  
1. From Jira, under the Links and others tab on the User Story for which you want to generate scenarios, 
access the link in the Test Manager URL field  
• authentication is always done via the email option  
• log in with one of the email addresses and passwords below:  
No. User  Email/User  Password  
1 laura.mitroi@librabank.ro  l1Bra#QA -tes! 
2 ciprian.oros@librabank.ro  l1Bra#QA -tes! 
3 alina.creata@librabank.ro  l1Bra#QA -tes! 
4 raluca.tabarcea@librabank.ro  l1Bra#QA -tes! 
5 mircea.naghi@librabank.ro  l1Bra#QA -tes! 
6 elena.cretu@librabank.ro  l1Bra#QA -tes! 
7 ioana.mercan@librabank.ro  l1Bra#QA -tes! 
8 isabela.calin@librabank.ro  l1Bra#QA -tes! 
9 andreea.popaluca@librabank.ro  l1Bra#QA -tes! 
10 elena.adar@librabank.ro  l1Bra#QA -tes! 
• the main page of the User Story in Test Manager is displayed  
2. Access the application URL, https://cloud.uipath.com/librabzqkvzf/portal_/home  
• follow the steps described above regarding authentication using only the email option and using one 
of the credentials  
• access Test Manager  
--- Page 10 ---
• from the All projects tab, search and/or directly access the Scrum where you want to search/create test 
scenarios  
• access the Requirements section, and to view/search for a requirement (User Story), click on the Key 
related to the requirement or enter the requirement name (a part of the name) in the Search field  
To continue with generating test scenarios for a requirement, follow the steps here.  
Steps to follow in Test Manager  
• From the main page of the requirement in Test Manager, access the +Optimize coverage  menu and 
select the Generate tests  option  
• IMPORTANT!  In the Provide additional context  window that opens, the user must ensure that all 
relevant documents for creating the test scenarios displayed on the page are selected by checking the 
corresponding checkbox; also, attachments from the Jira US as well as any other documents considered 
relevant for the user can be added here using the Add a file  option  
• Click Next  
• In the Provide additional guidance  window, select the prompt based on which specific sets of test 
scenarios will be generated; details related to the prompts available in Test Manager can be found here.  
Important!  After selecting one of the prompts, the user can edit the prompt directly in the open window, 
modifying it/adding additional context/instructions considered relevant.  
• It is recommended not to modify the default selected model - Claude  
• Click the Generate tests  button to generate the test scenarios  
• After generation, the user performs an initial check/evaluation of each test scenario and selects the 
corresponding checkbox only for the scenarios considered relevant, usable, and having the highest 
possible degree of coverage of the necessary steps. The initial evaluation of the test scenarios generated 
with Test Manager involves going through the stages provided here.  
 
  
--- Page 11 ---
Prompts in Test Manager  
 The complete library of available prompts, with the corresponding details, can be found in the main 
menu of Test Manager, by selecting Project Settings  and then the Prompt library  tab. 
The parameterizable prompts created by the Manual Testing Dept. are:  
Positive Scenario Test Creator:  
Generate up to 10 positive test cases in Romanian:  
• 1 happy path (end -to-end) and 9 secondary flows (end -to-end) 
• Mark title with "scenariu pozitiv"  
• Add "pozitiv" to Labels; also add "happy -path" for the happy path case  
• No duplicates  
• Max 50 steps per case  
• Each step = a user action (click, input, navigation, tab)  
• Include application/system and user + role in login steps  
• All steps must have expected behavior  
Negative Scenario Test Creator:  
Generate up to 10 negative test cases in Romanian:  
• Focus on invalid, unexpected, or incorrect input and blocked end -to-end flows  
• Group cases by element/feature  
• Mark title with "scenariu negativ" and add "negativ" to Labels  
• No duplicates  
• Max 50 steps per case  
• Each step = a user action (click, input, navigation, tab)  
• Include application/system and user + role in login steps  
• All steps must have expected behavior  
Non-functional Test Case Generator  
Generate 1 non -functional test case for each of the following: Performance, Security, Usability, Compatibility.  
• Mark title with "scenariu non -functional"  
• Add "non -functional" to Labels  
• No duplicates  
• Max 50 steps per case  
• Each step = a user action (click, input, navigation, tab)  
• Include application/system and user + role in login steps  
--- Page 12 ---
• All steps must have expected behavior  
• Output must be in Romanian  
UI/UX Non -functional Test Generator  
Generate up to 5 non -functional test cases in Romanian focused on User Interface and User Experience.  
• Mark title with "scenariu non -functional"  
• Add "non -functional" to Labels  
• No duplicates  
• Max 50 steps per case  
• Each step = a user action (click, input, navigation, tab)  
• Include application/system and user + role in login steps  
• All steps must have expected behavior  
IMPORTANT!  Prompts can be edited by the user in the test scenario generation process to obtain results as 
close as possible to expectations.  
 
AI-Generated Test Scenarios Evaluation Guide  
Purpose of the guide  
This guide establishes the steps and evaluation criteria used by testers for the test scenarios generated with 
Test Manager - UIPath, so that:  
• the responsibility for the tests' quality remains with the tester;  
• the generated test scenarios are treated as proposals, not final deliverables;  
• the testing quality is maintained at the level of the organization's standards.  
Basic principles  
• Test Manager Uipath = assistant, not author  
The tester is the owner of the test scenario and decides the final form.  
• Critical validation, not passive acceptance  
Test Manager Uipath can make logical, contextual, or terminological mistakes — the test scenario must be 
read "like a text written by an intelligent intern, but without practical experience".  
• Contextual verification  
Test Manager Uipath does not know all the constraints of the application, environment, or internal flows; the 
user must ensure they provide it with the most appropriate and complete context by adding relevant 
supplementary documents and/or updating the pro mpt. 
• Final responsibility belongs to the tester  
Only the tester decides on the quality and usefulness of a generated scenario and submits the final test scenario 
into Jira.  
--- Page 13 ---
The evaluation of test scenarios is carried out in the following order:  
1. Initial evaluation - details here  
2. Detailed evaluation - details here  
 
Initial evaluation of tests generated with Test Manager  
Immediately after generating the test scenarios, before pressing the Create tests  button, the user visually goes 
through all the generated scenarios successively, quickly answering the following questions:  
No Question  
1 Were the types of tests requested via the prompt generated (e.g., happy -path)?  
2 Does the test have the Description and Expected behaviour fields filled in?  
3 In the Description field, is the user's action clearly highlighted?  
4 In the Expected behaviour field, is the result of the action clearly highlighted?  
5 Are the steps in the test logical and do they follow a real usage flow?  
6 Is the test relevant, does it cover at least one requirement from the US for which it was generated?  
7 Is the test repetitive, redundant with another test generated for the User Story?  
8 Was the information from the attached documents taken into consideration?  
9 Does the test respect the naming rule and any labels mentioned in the prompt?  
10 Can the test be executed manually independently?  
1. Depending on the answer to the questions (YES/NO/Partial), the user decides which tests they can use 
by checking the corresponding checkbox and which tests they will not use at all, leaving the checkbox 
unchecked. To create the selected tests, follow the s teps here.  
2. If the user decides that the result of the test generation is unsatisfactory, and does not select any 
generated test for creation/use, they will press the Regenerate  button, then follow the detailed steps in 
Generating test scenarios, starting with the Provide additional context  window, where they can add 
new relevant documents and/or further down the flow they can customize/modify the prompt to 
generate usable tests.  
The initial evaluation stage will always end by checking the checkbox of the generated tests considered usable. 
The flow continues with Saving test scenarios in Test Manager and sending them to JIRA - QA - Confluence.  
--- Page 14 ---
 
Detailed evaluation of tests generated with Test Manager  
After saving the tests in Test Manager, the user manually checks the following criteria and refines the test 
scenarios, if necessary:  
Criterion  What you check  Examples of signals  
A. Relevance  Tests an existing functionality, a valid 
requirement, or a real user flow.  The scenario describes a function 
that does not exist in the 
application.  
B. Logical 
correctness  The steps lead to a valid result; they are not 
inverted or impossible.  The scenario asks for "login 
before accessing the login page".  
C. Testing value  The scenario brings additional coverage, 
including edge cases.  The scenario duplicates an already 
existing test.  
D. Ethics and UX 
(if applicable)  The scenario does not contain ambiguities 
or unethical assumptions in the user 
description.  Uses unrealistic or unpermitted 
personal data.  
Refining the test scenarios involves modifications consisting of:  
• Adding some steps  
• Eliminating some steps  
• Modifying the order of some steps  
• Updating some steps through a clearer, simpler language  
• Adjusting test data and prerequisites.  
This will also be done by going through some additional questions compared to the ones above:  
No Question  
1 Do the scenarios cover all the preconditions defined in the user story?  
2 Are all involved roles mentioned (user, support roles, involved systems)?  
3 Do the scenarios validate all the acceptance criteria from the user story?  
4 Are the scenarios complete (no essential steps or relevant scenarios are missing)?  
The flow continues with Steps to follow in Jira - QA - Confluence  
--- Page 15 ---
 
  
--- Page 16 ---
Saving test scenarios in Test Manager and sending them to JIRA  
 After completing the initial evaluation stage of the generated tests, the user presses the Create tests  
button and the generated tests are saved in Test Manager and automatically sent to Jira.  
The saved tests will be found in the Test Cases section on the main page of the requirement.  
At the same time, the test scenarios are automatically sent to JIRA, in the Xray Test Repository, in the Drafturi 
Test Manager subfolder within the folder of the SCRUM team for which the test scenarios were created.  
Further on, the user will go through the detailed evaluation stage, described here.  
Steps to follow in Jira  
Steps to follow in Jira  
• To quickly identify in Jira each test scenario created with Test Manager for a certain User Story, enter 
the Jira URL of the test scenario in the JIRA Address bar. We find this URL in Test Manager -> 
Requirements -> Access US from the list -> Access Test C ase from the Overview tab of the US -> 
Access Details tab of the Test Case.  
• IMPORTANT!  The user enters each test scenario generated by them with Test Manager and saves 
their own user as Assignee. In the Reporter field, the value 'Jira Automation' must always remain.  
• Edit the test scenario and save the following updates:  
1. in the Link issues section, select the value "tests" in the Linked issues field and add the tested 
US in the Issue field.  
2. Update the priority of the test scenario, according to 04. LX Priorities (*) - QA - Confluence.  
3. Move the test scenarios from the Drafturi Test Manager subfolder to the corresponding 
subfolder within the SCRUM team's parent folder.  
After completing all the steps above, the user will continue with the as -is steps / workflow provided by the 
Manual Testing Workflow, starting with 05. Validating LXs \Test Scenarios ( ) - QA - Confluence. NOTE!  If it 
is found that a test created by Test Manager and automatically arrived in Jira in the Drafturi Test Manager 
subfolder will not be used, it will be transitioned to the 'Archived' status and will be moved to the Arhivate 
subfolder within the Scrum team 's parent folder, according to Archiving LXs ( ) - QA - Confluence.  
02. Creating tests in Xray (*)  
Naming the LXs  
• The title will contain in its name the name of the project team \tested project.  
• An LX title will have "positive scenario", "negative scenario", "regression scenario", "smoke 
scenario", "non -functional scenario" in its name to be able to differentiate them.  
• If UI fields or elements are tested, it is recommended to use the name "field validation" or "UI element 
validation".  
• If business flows are tested, it is recommended to use the flow name in the name.  
• If an LX continues another LX in the same flow, it is recommended to use the numbering of the LXs:  
o Individual Client Opening - Creatio - Non-resident individual client without card with high risk 
degree (D -E) - positive scenario 1  
--- Page 17 ---
o Individual Client Opening - Creatio - Non-resident individual client without card with high risk 
degree (D -E) - positive scenario 1 - 1 
o Individual Client Opening - Creatio - Non-resident individual client without card with high risk 
degree (D -E) - positive scenario 1 - 2 
Rules for writing test scenarios:  
• ALL test scenarios must have the LABEL: US number  to make it easier to add multiple LXs to the 
Sub Test Execution (01. Adding LXs to Sub Test Execution -Xray Workflow (*) - QA - Confluence) 
and a label with the type of the created scenario.  
• A test scenario MUST NOT exceed 50 steps.  
• If a scenario exceeds this limit, the tester must analyze and evaluate the possibility of splitting it into 
multiple smaller scenarios, so that each scenario remains clear, manageable, and specific to a distinct 
functionality.  
• Scenarios must be concise, avoid redundant steps, and focus on efficiently testing a functionality.  
• If a scenario continues another scenario, the “Call Test” function will be used.  
• Scenarios should ideally be written following the business flow, and the execution of test cases must 
be thought of as having a logical sequence.  
• Scenarios should not verify the same thing multiple times; "exhaustive" type testing will be limited as 
much as possible.  
• If a business flow requires multiple scenario combinations to be covered (e.g., users with different 
roles for different screens \application functionalities), using the most representative test data 
combinations will be attempted as much as possible, thus covering as many important cases as possible 
- but not all possible combinations to limit the testing effort.  
The structure of the test scenarios is as follows:  
Action  Represents the concrete step the tester must 
perform in the application. This is a clear, 
precise, and easy -to-follow instruction. It must 
accurately describe the user's action.  Enter the amount in 
the „Transfer value” 
field.     
Yes 
Data  Specifies the information required to execute the 
step. It can contain specific values, test conditions, 
or missing data.  100 RON / Insufficient 
balance    
No 
Expected 
Result  Describes the correct behavior of the application, 
according to the specifications, after executing the 
step. The expected result must be clear, observable, 
and measurable.  The system displays the 
message „Transfer 
successfully 
completed”.     
Yes 
For adding LXs in X -ray, the following steps are respected:  
Step 1:  Access the Xray Library from the Jira project and enter the Xray Test Repository section.  
--- Page 18 ---
Step 2:  Search for the folder with the name of the scrum you are part of.  
Step 3:  Depending on the tested functionality or application section, identify the corresponding subfolder.  
– If it does not exist, create a new subfolder following the steps from the chapter Creating folders/subfolders 
in Scrum projects - QA - Confluence.  
Step 4:  Right -click on the subfolder where you want to upload the LX and select the Create Test Here option.  
Step 5:  A pop -up will open in which some essential fields for creating the test must be filled in.  
Step 6:  The following fields will be filled in:  
General Section  
• Project:  Xray Library (LX)  
• Issue Type:  Test 
• Summary:  ScrumName –USName –scenario type  
• Influenced applications:  Filled with the information from the US  
• Description:  - 
• Reporter:  Filled automatically with the name of the person who created the LX  
• Assignee:  Assign to me  
• Priority:  A value is chosen depending on the criteria described in chapter 04. LX Priorities (*) - QA - 
Confluence  
• Environment:  - 
• Labels:  USnumber, scenario type (Example: SCRT -6538, positive)  
• Test Repository Path:  The location in the Xray library where the LX is created  
• Epic Link:  - 
• Attachment:  - 
Link Issues Section  
• Linked Issues:  Tests  
• Issue:  US number  
After filling in all the fields mentioned above, the LX looks like this:  
Instructions for adding test steps:  
1. Manual addition of steps  
• if there are steps from another LX that can be used, use the Call test function, if not, add steps manually 
according to the steps below:  
• Add Step -> New  
• manually fill in the sections: Action, Data and Expected Result  
NOTE!  In case a different view of the added test steps is desired, the following method can be used:  
--- Page 19 ---
1. Add the first test step and press the Steps Dialog button.  
2. A new window is displayed where the test steps are viewed differently.  
3. After entering all the steps, click the Save button and return to the initial page.  
Archiving LXs (*)  
All LXs that are no longer used or relevant must be transitioned to the Archived status to keep track and 
maintain the traceability of the testing process.  
Each team uploads ALL LXs with the Archived status into the Arhivate subfolder within each folder bearing 
the scrum team's name. If the subfolder does not exist, one is created following the steps from the chapter 
Creating folders/subfolders in Scrum proje cts - QA - Confluence.  
Reasons why an LX can be transitioned to Archived status:  
• The LX is no longer used in the current workflow  
• The associated requirement or functionality was removed from the project scope  
• A new version exists that completely replaces it  
• It can no longer be updated or maintained in a relevant form for the project  
• It was identified as a duplicate of another already active LX  
• Business changes have made the LX irrelevant  
• LXs generated with Test Manager that are either no longer necessary or have been compiled into 
another LX and no longer require use  
We recommend that the status of an LX be changed to Archived only after going through all the necessary 
checks.  
LXs should be kept updated as much as possible, and archiving should be used only when the LX can no 
longer be used to a significant extent.  
Instead of deletion, the Archived status allows keeping the historical record and maintaining traceability in the 
testing process.  
Call Test (*)  
When is Call Test used  
• You have a set of steps that repeat in many scenarios (e.g.: Login, Logout, navigation to a certain 
menu)  
• You have created “building blocks” (basic) scenarios and want to include them in more complex ones  
• You want to maintain consistency between scenarios and avoid mistakes through copy/pasting  
• If a functionality is modified -> you only update the base scenario and all scenarios that “call” it are 
automatically updated  
• When you want to reduce maintenance time and have cleaner, shorter, and easier -to-read scenarios  
Steps for adding:  
• Add Step -> Call Test  
--- Page 20 ---
• in the newly opened pop -up, add the number of the LX you want to reuse  
 
  
--- Page 21 ---
01. Test Scenarios: rules and structure (*)  
1. Purpose of LXs  
The LXs document the test scenarios in the Xray Library, ensuring the traceability and correct validation of 
the User Stories (US).  
Each LX covers a specific functionality and can be of the positive, negative, regression, UI/UX, smoke or 
non-functional type.  
2. Organization in the Xray Library.  The detailed working procedure can be seen in chapter 05. 
Working with Xray Library (Xray Test Repository) (*) - QA - Confluence  
• The LXs are created in the Xray Test Repository, in the corresponding folder of the SCRUM team.  
• Each functionality has its own subfolder; LXs are not added directly into the main folder.  
• To create a new subfolder:  
1. Select the SCRUM folder.  
2. Press the „+” button.  
3. Rename the New folder with the name of the tested functionality or section.  
• In each folder named with the scrum team's name, there must be a Regression Tests, Smoke Tests, 
Archived, TestManager Drafts subfolder and folders named after functionalities/sections.  
3. Naming rules  
General format:  
ScrumName - USName - scenario type  
Scenario types:  
• positive scenario  
• negative scenario  
• regression scenario  
• smoke scenario  
• non-functional scenario  
• field validation / UI elements validation  
If a flow has multiple parts → it is numbered: Part1, Part2 or 1 -1, 1-2. 
4. Mandatory structure of scenarios  
Each LX must include all three columns:  
What the tester does in the 
application  With what data / 
conditions  What correct result must 
appear  
Rules:  
• The Data field is optional, but recommended for certain steps.  
--- Page 22 ---
• Maximum 50 steps per LX → if it is exceeded, it is split into multiple LXs.  
• Avoid redundant steps; follow the logic of the business flow.  
• Use Call Test to reuse existing scenarios. For more details about the Call Test function, check the 
chapter Call Test - QA - Confluence.  
5. Rules and best practices  
• All LXs must have the label with the US number and the scenario type.  
• Smoke and Regression scenarios are kept in dedicated folders and contain the smoke/regression label.  
01. Positive LXs (*)  
Positive LXs or positive scenarios must contain tests that verify if the application works correctly when it is 
used according to expectations (the US), with valid data.  
A positive scenario in testing is a test flow in which the user respects the application rules and introduces valid 
data, and the system works according to expectations.  
In other words, positive scenarios verify if the application does what it is supposed to when it is used correctly.  
The title of the positive scenario must be of the format: ScrumName -USName -positive scenario  
Label: positive, USno  
Note: All created LXs must be linked to the US.  
Simple examples:  
• Login: the user enters the correct username and password → the system allows authentication.  
• Online payment: the user enters valid card data and has sufficient funds → the payment is processed 
successfully.  
• Form completion: all mandatory fields are filled in correctly → the form is submitted without errors.  
Usually, positive scenarios are the first ones to be written and tested, because they verify the basic functionality 
and confirm that the application "works" under normal conditions.  
Complete details about how to create LXs can be found in the chapter here 02. Creating tests in Xray (*) - QA 
- Confluence.  
02. Negative LXs (*)  
Negative LXs or negative scenarios verify how the application handles unexpected situations or invalid data. 
The goal is to ensure that the application does not behave incorrectly or crash.  
A negative scenario in testing is a test flow in which the user does not respect the application rules or enters 
invalid data, to verify how the system handles errors.  
Practically, negative scenarios confirm that the application does not allow incorrect actions and displays 
corresponding error messages.  
The title of the negative scenario must be of the format: ScrumName -USName -negative scenario  
Label: negative, USno  
Note: All created LXs must be linked to the US.  
--- Page 23 ---
Simple examples:  
• Login: the user enters the wrong password → the system displays the message "Invalid username or 
password".  
• Online payment: the user enters an expired card → the system blocks the transaction and displays the 
error.  
• Form completion: the user leaves the mandatory fields blank → the system does not allow submission 
and displays a warning message.  
Negative scenarios are just as important as positive ones, because they ensure the fact that the application is 
robust and does not "crash" when the user makes a mistake or tries to break the rules.  
Complete details about how to create LXs can be found in the chapter here 02. Creating tests in Xray (*) - QA 
- Confluence.  
03. Regression LXs (*)  
Regression LXs or regression scenarios are carried out after modifications in the application (bug fix, new 
feature) to verify if the existing functionalities continue to work correctly. The goal is to prevent the 
appearance of new bugs in the already deve loped functionalities.  
Regression scenarios:  
• Regression scenarios must be added to the "Regression tests" folder within each SCRUM folder.  
• The title of the regression scenario must be of the format: ScrumName -USName -regression scenario  
• Label: regression, USno  
• Note: All created LXs must be linked to the US.  
For more details on how regression tests are defined, they can be found in chapter 02. Defining Regression 
Test Scenarios ( -) - QA - Confluence.  
Complete details about how to create LXs can be found in the chapter here 02. Creating tests in Xray (*) - QA 
- Confluence.  
04. UI \UX LXs (*)  
UI LXs or UI scenarios refer to verifying the visual and interactive aspect of an application: colors, buttons, 
layout.  
UX LXs or UX scenarios refer to the overall user experience: how easy, how intuitive, and how pleasant it is 
to use the application.  
Their goal is to make sure the interface is attractive (UI) and that navigating the application is done easily and 
efficiently (UX).  
The title of the UI/UX scenario must be of the format: ScrumName -USName -field validation or ScrumName -
USName -UI/UX elements validation  
Label: UI/UX, USno  
Note: All created LXs must be linked to the US.  
Complete details about how to create LXs can be found in the chapter here 02. Creating tests in Xray (*) - QA 
- Confluence.  
--- Page 24 ---
When do we do UI/UX Testing?  
• After implementing a new design or functionality.  
• Before a major release.  
• After feedback from real users.  
• Within regression testing for visual or interactive components.  
Concrete examples in UI/UX testing  
1 Design consistency  Displaying on various sizes 
and resolutions  The UI adapts without 
overlapping or disappearing; 
fonts and buttons remain 
readable  
2 Adaptability to 
orientations/resizing  Changing screen 
orientation/window resizing  Elements rearrange correctly, 
without loss of content or layout  
3 Interactions and gestures  Click, hover, swipe, drag & 
drop, etc.  All respond correctly and 
intuitively, without delays or 
unexpected behaviors  
4 UI Performance  Response to actions, 
animation speed, fluid scroll  The interface remains fluid even on 
slow devices  
5 State management  Application in background, 
screen lock, refresh  The entered data and position in the 
flow are kept  
6 Behavior in varied 
networks  Lack of connection, weak 
network, reconnection  Clear messages, offline actions 
saved, recovery without losses  
7 Visual feedback and 
confirmations  Executed actions: save, 
error, success  The user receives clear feedback 
(message, visual change, 
animation)  
8 Ergonomics  Accessibility with one hand 
or just keyboard  Important elements are easily 
accessible and large enough for 
easy interaction  
9 Accessibility  Screen readers, dark mode, 
large fonts  Readable text, easy navigation, full 
support for assistive technologies  
--- Page 25 ---
1 Design consistency  Displaying on various sizes 
and resolutions  The UI adapts without 
overlapping or disappearing; 
fonts and buttons remain 
readable  
10 Permissions and 
notifications  Access requests and 
behavior if refused  Explicit messages, the application 
works correctly even without 
permissions  
11 Behavior in special 
conditions  Battery saving mode, 
multitasking, zoom, bright 
light The UI remains stable and readable, 
without major interruptions  
12 Simplicity and clarity in 
flows  Forms, checkout, usual 
operations  Minimum steps, useful validations, 
clean design without useless 
elements  
05. Smoke LXs (*)  
Smoke tests represent a specific type of tests \LXs. For more details here: 02. Defining Smoke tests - QA - 
Confluence  
Smoke scenarios:  
• Smoke scenarios must be added to the "Smoke tests" folder within each SCRUM folder.  
• Label: smoke, USno  
• More details here 01. Smoke Tests Workflow - QA - Confluence  
Complete details about how to create LXs can be found in the chapter here 02. Creating tests in Xray (*) - QA 
- Confluence.  
Recommendations:  
For an LX that goes through screen windows - recommendation to have 1 LX for each screen; if there are 
screens accessed using another LX - call test to the LXs needed to reach the screen  
For flow LXs 1 complex happy path LX  
1 failed login LX  
1 or more LXs with rights for specific roles - for obvious screens after login  
1 successful login LX - extract login steps from existing LXs, create a separate login LX to be called by the 
other tests  
It is recommended to use the call test function as often as possible where possible.  
06. Non -functional LXs (*)  
Non-functional LXs verify the performance, stability, security, and usability of the application, not the actual 
functionality.  
--- Page 26 ---
The goal is to ensure that the application works correctly and efficiently under real conditions of use, providing 
a good user experience.  
A non -functional scenario is a test flow that evaluates the behavior of the application beyond the basic 
functions — for example, how fast the system responds, how stable it remains under load, or if data is properly 
protected.  
Practically, non -functional scenarios confirm that the application:  
• responds in an acceptable time,  
• can support a large number of simultaneous users,  
• is safe in terms of access and data,  
• is easy to use and intuitive.  
The title of the non -functional scenario must be of the format: ScrumName -USName -non functional scenario 
for scenarios that cover performance, security, Usability, Reliability, Compatibility, Compliance, 
Configuration requirements, etc.  
• Label: non -functional, USno  
Note: All created LXs must be linked to the US.  
Simple examples:  
• Performance: the system responds in a maximum of 2 seconds when 100 users simultaneously access 
the main page.  
• Security: the unauthenticated user tries to access an internal page → the system redirects to the login 
screen.  
• Stability: the application remains functional after 12 hours of continuous use without errors.  
• Usability: buttons and error messages are clear and intuitive, so the user can quickly understand how 
to correct a mistake.  
Non-functional scenarios are just as important as functional ones, because they ensure that the application not 
only "works", but works well, fast, and safely under real conditions of use.  
Complete details about how to create LXs can be found in the chapter here 02. Creating tests in Xray (*) - QA 
- Confluence.  
04. LX Priorities (*)  
Smoke tests will always have Urgent priority, for more details here 02. Defining Smoke tests - QA - 
Confluence  
Regression Tests will have another way to set priorities 04. Regression tests priority (*)  
General prioritization criteria  
--- Page 27 ---
Impact upon customer  How serious it is if the functionality doesn't work. Ex: cannot access 
money.  
Frequency of use  How often the functionality is used. Ex: login = daily.  
Technical risk  How unstable or sensitive the tested area is.  
Blockage for other 
functions  If it affects other modules. Ex: login blocks the whole application.  
Practical recommendations:  
• Urgent = Functionalities that affect access to or the safety of money.  
• High = Important functionalities, but where the error does not lead to direct losses.  
• Normal = the majority of secondary functionalities, testable later.  
• Low = Rare, unused or experimental functionalities.  
• Not a Priority = The default priority with which an LX is created. It is mandatory to be changed.  
Priority mapping, test types, and examples  
The examples below are generally applicable, with exceptions listed below the table  
Urgent  Positive  Critical for business, 
blocking  Authentication in the mobile app with 
SMS code (2FA)  
 Negative  Security, legal risk  Attempt to access with multiple invalid 
data → account blocked  
 Regression  Essential functionalities 
recently modified  Confirming an interbank transfer works 
incorrectly  
High  Positive  Important functionalities, but 
not blocking  Opening a savings account  
 Negative  Critical validations, but 
without immediate risk  Transfer to an invalid IBAN must be 
refused  
 Regression  Usual behaviors with bug 
history  Displaying the balance after login  
Normal  Positive  Standard functionalities, 
without risk  Updating the address in the client profile  
--- Page 28 ---
Urgent  Positive  Critical for business, 
blocking  Authentication in the mobile app with 
SMS code (2FA)  
 Negative  UI validations, error messages  Entering a special character in an 
unpermitted field  
 Regression  Stable areas, with low impact  Navigating between application tabs (e.g.: 
"Accounts" → "Payments")  
Low Positive  Rare or auxiliary 
functionalities  Saving a custom theme in the banking 
application  
 Negative  Rare scenarios, without 
impact  Simultaneous opening of the application 
on 2 devices  
 Regression  Almost unmodified 
functionalities  Viewing the history of an old payment 
from 2019  
 
  
--- Page 29 ---
05. Validating LXs \Test Scenarios (*)  
Validating test scenarios is the process by which it is verified if the test scenarios are correct, complete, and 
relevant in relation to the requirements of the application or system to be tested.  
What is a test scenario?  
A test scenario describes a general testing situation that validates a certain usage flow or functionality of the 
application. More information here 02. Manual Test Scenarios Definition Workflow (*)  
What does validating scenarios mean?  
Validating test scenarios means ensuring that:  
1. They cover all the requirements defined in the functional specifications.  
2. They are logical and achievable – meaning they can actually be run by testers.  
3. They reflect the real use of the application by the user.  
4. They correctly identify positive and negative conditions (e.g.: login with wrong data).  
5. They are clear and without ambiguities, so that anyone who reads them can understand them.  
01. What does validating LXs \test scenarios mean? (*)  
Validating test scenarios = verifying the fact that the scenarios:  
• test the correct requirements,  
• are complete and clear,  
• can be executed without ambiguities,  
• have correct and verifiable expected results.  
A Product Owner (PO), Application Owner (or IT Business Analyst \Developer) or Real Beneficiary can return 
the LXs to the tester after validation for several reasons, to ensure that the tests correctly cover the established 
requirements and standards. Here are some common reasons:  
Incomplete coverage of business flows  
• If the PO \Application Owner \Real Beneficiary notices that certain business flows or functionalities are 
not covered by the LX(s), they can ask for their completion or modification.  
• If the tests do not include critical scenarios or important use cases, the PO \Application Owner \Real 
Beneficiary can request their inclusion to ensure complete coverage.  
Discrepancies between requirements \flows and LXs  
• If the tests seem to reflect an erroneous interpretation of the business flows, the PO \Application 
Owner \Real Beneficiary can request their correction to better align with expectations.  
• If the expected results from the LXs do not correspond to the established expected results, the 
PO\Application Owner \Real Beneficiary can request their revision.  
Lack of clarity  
• If the steps described in the LXs are not clear enough or are ambiguous, the PO \Application 
Owner \Real Beneficiary can ask for clarifications or their rewording to avoid confusions in execution.  
--- Page 30 ---
• The PO \Application Owner/Real Beneficiary can request more details in the expected results section 
if these are not precise enough to determine the success or failure of a test.  
• LXs should ideally be written following the business flow, and the execution of test cases must be 
thought of as having a logical sequence. If the PO \Application Owner \Real Beneficiary notices that 
the logical and normal business flow is not respected then  they can request their revision.  
Repetitive tests or tests that verify the same thing multiple times  
• LXs should not contain steps that repeat in other LXs. If the steps repeat, they must be called using the 
"Call Test" function from Xray to be able to maintain a logical structure of the tests. This working 
method will also be useful for test automation. F or this reason, the PO \Application Owner \Real 
Beneficiary can send the LXs back for revision and rewriting.  
• LXs should not verify the same thing multiple times; limiting the "exhaustive" type testing detailed 
below will be attempted as much as possible. For this reason, the PO/Application Owner/Beneficiary 
can send the LXs back for revision and rewriting.  
Lack of negative scenarios and edge cases  
• If the tests do not include negative scenarios (for example, invalid inputs or unforeseen behaviors), the 
PO\Application Owner \Real Beneficiary can request their addition to verify the results of the tested 
applications and the displaying of errors.  
• In case limit situations or rarer cases are not covered, the PO \Application Owner \Real Beneficiary can 
ask for a revision to include these scenarios, essential for ensuring quality.  
Alignment with Recent Modifications  
• If recent modifications were made in the requirements or business flows, and the tests were not updated 
to reflect these changes, the PO \Application Owner \Real Beneficiary can ask for the revalidation or 
updating of the tests.  
For any of the reasons above, the PO \Application Owner \Real Beneficiary can send the LXs received from 
Testers back for rewriting.  
The reason why the test cases are sent back will have to be mentioned either as a comment in the LX.  
 
02. Validating LXs \test scenarios workflow (*)  
After creating the test scenarios, the LXs must be added in the Description field of the Defining Scenarios 
sub-task. 
To avoid keeping information outside Jira, the validation of scenarios will be done in the following way.  
• The test scenarios \LXs are created according to 02. Identifying and creating tests in Xray (*) - QA - 
Confluence  
o the Links within each LX "tests \Tested by" are added to the tested User Stories  
• The "Defining Scenarios" Sub -task is created according to 06. Create Defining Scenarios sub -task (*)  
o in the "Defining Scenarios" Sub -Task, all the LXs testing the User Story will be added in the 
"Description" field  
• The LXs are created and remain in the "Defining" status until the validation process concludes  
--- Page 31 ---
o when the LXs are considered complete from the Tester's point of view, they will add a comment 
in the "Defining Scenarios" Sub -Task for validation  
▪ the comment will have the form "please validate the LXs in the Description"  
▪ the users involved in the normal validation of the LXs will be added with @:  
▪ mandatory validator: Product Owner and Testing Team Lead  
▪ the PO has the responsibility to further hold the scenario presentation meeting 
to the Application Owner and real Beneficiary  
▪ the team must be consulted for the complete list  
o The defining scenarios sub -task will remain in "In Progress" until a response is received (at 
least from the PO)  
▪ comment from the validators "Test scenarios \LXs OK"  
▪ any request to update \modify the LXs from the validators will be done in Jira in 
comments  
▪ the scenario validation process ends when all the LXs have been modified according to 
the modification requests from the Jira comments on the sub -task 
▪ at the end of the scenario validation process, the LXs will be transitioned into the 
"Finalized Scenarios" status and the "Defining Scenarios" Sub -Task can be closed with 
the "Closed" status  
o In case it is found that the US is in a status past the testing phase and the validation was not 
received, the problem is escalated to the PM for unblocking.  
• Examples of reasons why the LXs \test scenarios can be sent for revision can be found here 01. What 
does validating LXs \test scenarios mean? (*).  
o To avoid revising the LXs it is recommended to cover the points in the list as a minimum 
necessity  
o The list must be treated as an orientation guide, each team will have specificities not covered 
by the list  
 
03. To whom are the scenarios sent for validation (*)  
The LXs (or scenarios) are usually sent for validation to the Product Owner, Application Owner or real 
Beneficiary. It was agreed that it is the Product Owner's responsibility to send the scenarios to the Application 
Owner/real Beneficiary as well if they consider input is necessary for validating the scenarios.  
Generally (with a few exceptions) the Product Owner and the Application Owner are the same person so the 
scenarios (LXs) will be sent for validation to the same person.  
LXs can also be sent for validation to BAs, IT representatives or even the entire SCRUM \Waterfall team.  
User Stories contain the "Influenced Applications" field - these are the applications that will be tested.  
To be able to identify the Application Owner for the tested application, the following columns from the List 
of applications and system owners must be checked  
--- Page 32 ---
• K (Functional ownership)  
• L (Functional owner)  
The list of tested applications below are the applications that have been historically tested within the 
teams \projects (based on the "Influenced applications" field in Jira for User Stories within the projects)  
Team \Project  Product Owner  Tested Applications  
AA (Waterfall 
Upgrade)  N\A  
Flow Credite  Andreea 
Lupulescu  Credit Flow  
Pj. Externe 
(Creatio Pensii)  N\A IBS, T24, [Creatio] Flux Pensii, LibraBank, [Sysmart] 
Collection, [Arggo] Aplicatie Brokeri  
SCRUM Admin. 
Credite  Andreea 
Lupulescu  IBS, T24, IBK, [Sysmart] Credite, Portal evaluatori externi, 
Sysmart  
SCRUM Alte 
Divizii  PO IBS, T24, IBK, Libra Business Suite, LibraBank, Libra 
Online, Aplicatia de pontaj, OpenKM, Mediatel, Portal 
evaluatori externi, [Arggo] Aplicatie Brokeri, Sysmart, 
[Sysmart] Valorificari Bunuri, [Sysmart] Collection  
SCRUM Analiza 
Credite  Alexandru 
Marghidanu  IBS, T24, IBK, OpenKM, [Sysmart] Credite, Libra Business 
Suite, Sysmart, Creatio, CRM MS Dynamics (old?), 
RECOM (?old)  
SCRUM Carduri  Florin Draghici  IBS, T24, IBK, Libra Journey, LibraPay, Libra Online, 
OpenKM, LibraBank, IBS WebAPI, IBS card API, Serverul 
de autorizare, API Banking, Mediator  
SCRUM 
Conformitate  Adrian Tilinca  IBS, T24, IBK, OpenKM, Temenos FCM, Libra Home  
SCRUM CP  Simona V olintiru  IBS, T24, OpenKM, [Sysmart] Popriri, [Creatio] Flux 
Pensii, Libra Business Suite, LibraBank  
SCRUM Creatio 
Deschidere Client  Cosmin Cazan  IBS, T24, [Creatio] Deschidere Clienti, [Creatio] CRM  
--- Page 33 ---
Team \Project  Product Owner  Tested Applications  
SCRUM CRM  Catalina Oprea  [Creatio] CRM, [Creatio] Credite (old), CRM MS 
Dynamics (old)  
SCRUM 
Decontari  Ramona Barbu  IBS, T24, IBK, FCM, LibraBank, OpenKM  
SCRUM Digital  Adelina Peta  IBS, T24, IBK, MBK, Libra Business Suite, Libra Online, 
Sysmart  
SCRUM Digital 
HUB  Eduard Weiss  IBS, T24, IBK, API Banking, IBS WebAPI, Mediator, 
WSO2 API GatewayExtern, API Investigator, LibraBank, 
[Arggo] Aplicatie Brokeri, [Sysmart] Investigator, RT  
SCRUM 
Digitalizare 
fluxuri clienti  Cosmin Cazan  IBS, T24, IBK, [Creatio] Deschidere Clienti, [Creatio] 
CRM, IBBO Clienti, OpenKM, RT  
SCRUM 
IBK/MBK  Cristina 
Costovici, Silviu 
Babescu  IBS, IBK, MBK, IMBK WebAPI, Libra Journey, IBBO 
Clienti, Libra Online, IdentityServer, LibraBank, IBS card 
API, LibraPay, OpenKM, API Banking  
SCRUM Libra 
Journey  Iulia Balasan  IBS, IBK, Libra Journey, IBS card API, LibraBank, 
LibraPay  
SCRUM LibraPay  Eduard Weiss  IBS, IBK, Libra Journey, LibraPay, Dashboard LibraPay 
(comercianti), Serverul de autorizare  
SCRUM 
Operatiuni  Cristina 
Tanasescu  IBS, T24, IBK, OpenKM, FCM, LibraBank, IBBO Clienti  
TIPS (Decontari)    
TPH (Waterfall 
Upgrade)  Ramona Barbu   
Examples of Application Owner for the most frequently tested applications below (the complete list of 
applications and Owners is here: List of applications and system owners)  
In the IBS and T24 cases, the Application Owner will be the representative of the specific module from the 
Functional ownership column (application ownership division)  
--- Page 34 ---
Application  Functional ownership (application 
ownership division)  Functional owner 
(Application Owner)  
IBS Director Divizia Operatiuni  
 
 
Decontari - Sef departament/VP 
coordonator  
 
 
Analiza financiara - Director Div. Analiza 
Credite Corporate  
 
 
Administrare contracte - Director Div. 
Administrare Credite  
 
 
RECOM - Director Divizia Operatiuni  
 
 
ARHIV A - Director CP  
 
 
ePopriri - Director CP  
 
 
AML - Director Div. Conformitate  
 
 
CARDS - Cards Management - Director 
Div. Carduri  
 
 
RISK - Director Div. Adm. Riscurilor  Director Divizia 
Operatiuni  
--- Page 35 ---
Application  Functional ownership (application 
ownership division)  Functional owner 
(Application Owner)  
 
 
Monitorizare clienti si workout - Director 
Div Monitorizare Clienti si Workout  
T24 Director Divizia Operatiuni  
 
 
Owner modul FT - Director Divizie 
Operatiuni  
 
 
Owner modul LD - Director Div. 
Administrare Credite  
 
 
Owner modul PD - Director Div. 
Administrare Credite  
 
 
Owner modul FX - interbancar - Director 
Div. Trezorerie  Director Divizia 
Operatiuni  
Libra Internet Banking 
(IBK)  Director eBusiness  Director eBusiness - 
Alexandru Bita  
Libra Mobile Banking 
(MBK)  Director eBusiness  Director eBusiness - 
Alexandru Bita  
Libra Journey  Director Divizia Carduri  Director Divizia Carduri  
LibraHome  Director Divizia eBusiness  Alexandru Bita  
Libraonline  Director Divizia Marketing  Octavian Hera  
--- Page 36 ---
Application  Functional ownership (application 
ownership division)  Functional owner 
(Application Owner)  
LIBRAPAY  Director Divizia eBusiness  Alexandru Bita  
OpenKM Document 
Management  Director Divizia Managementul Calitatii  Simona V olintiru (sau 
Georgian Stoica)  
Creatio CRM, Pensii, 
Deschidere Client  Divizia Managementul Calitatii Proceselor  Marghidanu Alexandru 
(sau Georgian Stoica)  
Sysmart - Audit  Director Divizia Audit Intern  Madalina Soare  
Sysmart - Collection  Director Divizia Colectare Debite  Dragos Vilcu  
Sysmart - Debitori  Director Divizia Administrare Credite  Emilia Nicolae  
Sysmart - InvestigatorVD  Director Divizie Analiza Credite  Irina Sita  
Sysmart - Popriri  Director Centrul de Procesare  Cornelia Vieriu  
Sysmart - Urmarire 
Credite  Director Divizia Analiza Credite  Irina Sita  
 
06. Create Defining Scenarios sub -task (*)  
All newly created User Stories will have this sub -task created.  
However, if there is a need for this sub -task to be created manually, the steps below can be followed.  
This sub -task will be used for logging the time spent on writing test scenarios and for validating the created 
test scenarios.  
1. Creating a subtask  
To open this type of sub -task, the steps below will be followed:  
STEP 1: We enter the User Story(US) that was assigned to us.  
STEP 2: We scroll on the US until we reach the Sub -Tasks section and press the + button on the right side.  
STEP 3: The Create Subtask pop -up opens: scrum abbreviation -US number . 
STEP 4: We fill in the following fields as follows:  
--- Page 37 ---
Field  Instruction/ Value to be filled in  
Issue Type  Sub-Task 
Summary  Defining Scenarios  
Description  - 
Assignee  Assign to me  
Sub-task type  Testing None  
Original Estimate  Time estimate for the effort put into writing scenarios  
Remaining Estimate  - 
Labels  - 
Attachment  - 
Story Points estimate  - 
Access ticket  - 
STEP 5: Press the Create button and verify if our sub -task was added in the Sub -Tasks section of the taken 
US. 
STEP 6: Access the previously created sub -task. 
The Defining scenarios sub -task is created to help the team know the stage we are at with our activity on the 
US that was assigned to us. In this sub -task you have the obligation to log your time spent creating test 
scenarios.  
2. Subtask work flow  
Upon creating the subtask, its status will be TO DO. The tester has the obligation to change the status from 
TO DO → IN PROGRESS when they start writing the scenarios in X -ray or generating them with 
TestManager. The status will remain IN PROGRESS until va lidation is received from the PO/Application 
Owner. After validating the scenarios, the subtask status must be modified to DONE.  
 
07. Adding LX to the Defining Scenarios Subtask (*)  
Steps for adding the LX on the defining scenarios subtask:  
--- Page 38 ---
Step 1: In case there is no "Defining Scenarios" subtask on the US being worked on, the subtask is created 
according to the steps here.  
Step 2: The LX is created in the X -ray Library according to the steps here.  
Step 3: Return to the "Defining Scenarios" subtask and add the previously created LX/LXs in the "Description" 
field.  
Step 4: After adding the LXs, follow the steps described here.  
02. Manual Test Scenarios Definition Workflow (*)  
The workflow describes the complete process of defining, documenting and validating test scenarios (LXs) 
related to a User Story (US), as well as the management mode of the Defining scenarios sub -task in Jira.  
The main purpose is to ensure:  
• traceability between the requirements from the US and the related tests;  
• a clear record of the time spent for writing and validating the scenarios;  
• a unitary structure for all the scenarios created in the Xray Library.  
The scenario definition process includes the following stages:  
1. Creating the "Defining scenarios" sub -task following the steps in the chapter 06. Create Defining 
Scenarios sub -task (*) - QA - Confluence  
The sub -task is created automatically for each new US. If it is missing, it is created manually and is used for 
logging time and for adding the related LXs.  
2. Creating the LXs in the Xray Library following the steps in the chapter 02. Creating tests in Xray (*) 
- QA - Confluence  
The tester identifies the flow that must be tested and creates the scenarios (positive, negative, regression, 
smoke, UI/UX etc.) respecting the naming rules and structure (Action, Data, Expected Result).  
All LXs are saved in the corresponding subfolder from Xray and are labeled with the US number.  
3. Adding the LXs on the "Defining scenarios" sub -task following the steps in the chapter 07. Adding 
LX to the Defining Scenarios Subtask (*) - QA - Confluence  
After creation, the LXs are inserted in the Description field of the sub -task, to allow their visibility and 
validation by the PO together with the Real Beneficiary and Application Owner.  
4. Logging time following the steps in the chapter 10. LogTime - QA - Confluence  
The tester has the obligation to log daily the time spent for writing and validating the scenarios, in the 
"Defining scenarios" sub -task. 
5. Validating scenarios. The working procedure can be found in chapter 02. Validating LXs \test scenarios 
workflow (*) - QA - Confluence  
The scenarios are validated by the PO together with the Real Beneficiary and Application Owner. After 
validation, the sub -task is passed to the DONE status.  
6. Updating flows and reusing tests  
--- Page 39 ---
If the flow is already documented in the Xray Library, Call Test is used to avoid duplicating steps. If it doesn't 
exist, a new flow is documented and added to the library for subsequent reuse. For more details on how the 
Call test function is used, check the Call Test - QA - Confluence chapter.  
This workflow ensures coherence between the scenario documentation and the testing process, contributing 
to better planning, transparency and control of the QA activity.  
 
02. Executing Test Scenarios Workflow (*)  
When the Tester transitions a User Story from the Ready for testing status to In testing, a pop -up will open in 
which 2 fields must be obligatorily filled out:  
Testing type: has a default value. From the dropdown list, the type of testing to follow on the User Story will 
be selected:  
→ QM - testing is carried out by the Testers from the QM division  
→ Business - testing is carried out by business testers.  
→ The Testing Type field is visible after completion in the Requirement section (the last field) and can be 
edited through the Edit option.  
Testing responsible: will be filled out with the name of the Tester (QM or business) who will test the 
requirement. As a rule, the person making the transition and testing the requirement will also fill out the Testing 
responsible field.  
→ If the value in the "Testing type" field is changed, then the "Testing responsible" field becomes mandatory 
and the value in it is deleted (the user must manually add the testing responsible)  
→ The Testing responsible field is visible in the People section, under Documentation responsible.  
• Upon creating User Stories, 4 types of Sub Test Executions for testing will automatically be created, 
which will be seen in the Sub Tasks section:  
o UAT Testing - positive, negative, UI/UX, non -functional and regression LXs will be executed 
here 
o Smoke PRL Testing  
o PRL Testing - only Happy path LXs (at least 1) + bug retesting (discovered in UAT) with Major, 
Blocker severity will be executed here (Retesting all Bugs found in UAT is not mandatory)  
o Regression PRL Testing  
The order of running tests in Prelive is the following: Smoke PRL Testing → PRL Testing → Regression PRL 
Testing  
It is no longer necessary to attach evidence for any type of testing: LX execution, UAT or Prelive testing, 
SCRUM or Waterfall testing, including in fixing bug retesting; evidence in bug reporting remains.  
After finalizing the Sub Test Execution testing (Smoke PRL Testing 03. Smoke Tests Execution ( ), Regression 
PRL Testing 04. Regression Tests Execution ( ), PRL Testing) the tester will transition the User Story in Jira 
into the Ready for Release status.  
If multiple LXs were executed in the UAT test environment, but in PRL it is decided that some of them should 
not be executed, they are NOT added to the PRL Testing Sub -Test Execution.  
--- Page 40 ---
The test scenario execution process includes the following stages:  
1. Creating Sub Test Execution  
For each User Story, a Sub Test Execution is created, either automatically, or manually if it was not generated.  
2. Adding LXs on Sub Test Execution  
The test scenarios (LXs) relevant for the respective testing are added into the Sub Test Execution. These LXs 
can be added using search options by number, name, filters or JQL - more details here. Only the LXs that 
actually need to be tested in each testin g phase are selected.  
3. Executing scenarios  
The tester runs every step from the added scenarios, marking the result of each step: Pass, Fail, Blocked, 
Aborted etc. In case of fail, bugs are reported and evidence is added.  
4. Logging time  
During execution, the tester fills out in the Sub Test Execution the estimated time and the actual time consumed 
for each testing activity. The tester has the obligation to log their time spent executing the scenarios daily.  
 
00. Create Sub test execution and Transition (*)  
In case the User Story is older and the Sub -Test Execution was not opened automatically, follow the steps 
below:  
During Sprint Planning meetings, it is mandatory to estimate the testing hours within the Sub -Test Execution 
- you can check them here  
To fill in the time destined for testing, the Tester will access the Edit option on the Sub Test Execution and 
will modify the Original Estimate field with the estimated time for testing:  
1. Enter the User Story in the Sub task section and select the "+" option  
2. A pop up opens where we must fill in the fields as follows:  
Field  Instruction/ Value to be filled in  
Issue Type  Sub Test Execution  
Summary  UAT/PRL/Smoke PRL/Regression PRL Testing  
Description  - 
Development 
environment  UAT/PRL  
Reporter  Filled automatically with the name of the person opening the sub -test 
execution  
--- Page 41 ---
Field  Instruction/ Value to be filled in  
Assignee  Assign to me  
Priority  Normal  
Original Estimate  Time estimate for the effort put into testing  
Environment  - 
Attachment  - 
Labels  - 
Remaining Estimate  - 
Create  
Transition and statuses on sub test execution:  
To Do:  Execution has not started yet. The initial status when the Task was opened,  
In progress:  Execution is underway, the tester has started running the test scenario steps and it modifies 
automatically or is modified into this status by the tester.  
Done:  Execution was performed and finalized. The tester modifies into this status.  
Aborted:  Execution was interrupted and will not be finalized. A comment is left with the reason why the 
testing was put in this status.  
 
01. Adding LXs to Sub Test Execution (*)  
Steps for adding the LX on the Sub Test Execution in Jira  
To add LXs on the Sub Test Execution, open it and press the Add Tests - Existing tests button, LXs can be 
added using 2 options:  
1.1 "Select" Section - a list is displayed from where I can add the previously defined tests by typing the LX 
number or its name. It finishes by pressing the Add Selected button.  
1.2. "Search" Section - a list of filters is displayed where we add a new filter: selecting the option "Filter(s) -
"Label"  
Project: Librarie Xray(LX)  
Test Type: Manual  
Contains text: can be searched by a specific word in the LX name from the Summary field  
Folder: Select the folder/subfolder where the LX was saved in the Xray library  
--- Page 42 ---
Label: the US number example - DS-6427, MBK -2827, etc  
Then access the "Search" button  
Adding can be done by selecting the desired LXs (Add selected) or selecting all displayed LXs (Add all)  
2. "JQL" Section - a field that we fill with: issuetype = Test and labels = US Number example - DS-6427, 
MBK -2827, etc  
Adding can be done by selecting the desired LXs (Add selected) or selecting all displayed LXs (Add all)  
Running the test scenarios through Sub -test Execution is done after adding the LXs like in the steps above  
• Open sub test Execution and press the Execute button (it is necessary for a person to be assigned to 
that issue for the Execute button to be available)  
• The window where we find the test scenarios opens:  
Rules for running scenarios are carried out according to the execution statuses defined below.  
If the test step verification was not successfully completed, the FAIL status is set (Evidence is uploaded) and 
a Bug is opened according to 03. Reporting a Bug in Jira (*)  
Within software testing, subtest execution statuses are essential to understand the progress and results of the 
tests. These statuses help QA teams to quickly identify problems and communicate efficiently about the state 
of the tests. Here is a detailed de scription of the five mentioned statuses:  
Pass  
• Indicates the tested functionality works as expected.  
Fail 
• The tested step signals a problem in the application that must be investigated and corrected, on which 
a Bug is opened according to 03. Reporting a Bug (*)  
• The Fail status on the test step automatically changes the entire LX to Fail status,  
Executing  
• Indicates the test step is active and is in the process of evaluation.  
Aborted  
• The step to be tested is considered irrelevant for testing the User Story's functionality  
Blocked  
• Signals that the test cannot continue until the blocking problem is not resolved,  
• The status can be used in the situation where a step from an LX cannot be run because a previous Bug 
exists on the flow (on other steps)  
• The Blocked status on the test step automatically changes the entire LX to Blocked status, similar to 
the Fail status  
 
02. UAT Testing (*)  
--- Page 43 ---
The UAT Testing Sub -Test Execution will be automatically created in the Sub -Tasks section upon opening the 
User Story.  
In case the US does not already have a created sub test execution, it is added according to 00. Create Sub test 
execution and Transition  
To fill in the time destined for testing, the tester will access the Edit option from the UAT Testing section and 
modify the Original Estimate field from the initial value of 1 minute to the estimated time for testing.  
Test execution in the UAT environment can begin after the test scenarios have been validated in Jira.  
In the UAT test environment all LXs created for the US will be executed (Happy path, positive, negative, non 
functional, regression, UI/UX - separate Sub test execution is not created for each type of testing, all LXs are 
linked to the US)  
On UAT Testing, it is mandatory that all steps from a scenario are executed and have the PASS status - steps 
in Aborted status are not accepted. In exceptional cases, if a step has an Aborted status, there must also be a 
justification on the respective ste p in the comments section.  
• For validating test steps in UAT, the workflow described in the dedicated chapter is followed.  
• In case of identifying Bugs during scenario execution in UAT, a BUG type Issue is opened following 
the steps here. The step on which it was identified being marked with FAIL status.  
• After fixing the Bugs the tester has the obligation to retest them according to the workflow defined in 
04. Retesting a bug fix (*). After the bug has been retested, the step on which it was identified is 
modified to PASS status.  
• Bugs reported following UAT testing must have the "Development environment" field filled with the 
value "UAT". In exceptional cases, if the bug was not fixed, there must be a comment at the US level 
requesting conditional acceptance from the tester to the @PO with open bugs for promotion into 
Prelive  
When the execution of tests in the UAT test environment and the retesting of Bugs is completed, the Demo 
meeting is held to obtain acceptance:  
• The User Story status is modified to: Approval Required.  
• Scrum Master sends an invitation for the Demo meeting to: Product owner, Application Owner and 
Project Beneficiary and other involved persons (developer, other people from business or involved in 
the project).  
• The Demo meeting is held by the Tester (in their absence by the Product owner or Developer) 
respecting the steps from 04. DEMO Presentation in Agile \SCRUM with the purpose of obtaining 
acceptance.  
• After obtaining Acceptance following the Demo meeting, the UAT Sub Test Execution status is 
modified from In Progress into Done. (the time spent in the Demo meeting is logged on the UAT 
Testing Sub Test Execution).  
During Sprint Planning meetings, it is mandatory to estimate the testing hours within the Sub -Test Execution 
- you can check them here  
To fill in the time destined for testing, the Tester will access the Edit option from UAT Testing and modify the 
Original Estimate field with the estimated time for testing.  
--- Page 44 ---
If the LX is not relevant to be tested in the UAT test environment, it is not created and not added to the Sub 
Test-Execution.  
Evidence is no longer attached on the LX steps from Sub test Execution.  
 
03. Smoke Testing (*)  
The Smoke Testing Sub -Test Execution will automatically be created in the Sub -Tasks section upon opening 
the User Story and will be run according to 03. Smoke Tests Execution  
In case the US does not already have a created sub test execution, it is added according to 00. Create Sub test 
execution and Transition .  
To fill in the time destined for testing, the tester will access the Edit option from the Smoke Testing section 
and modify the Original Estimate field from the initial value of 1 minute to the estimated time for testing.  
Smoke Testing will be the first testing stage in the PRL test environment as follows:  
• In the PRL test environment all LXs created in X -Ray in the dedicated folders of each Scrum with the 
name "Smoke Tests" will be executed.  
• On each Epic/ICD there must be at least one executed "Smoke Tests" type Sub Test Execution.  
• Smoke tests will be run after the deployment of each new build on Prelive.  
• It is not run on each individual User Story.  
In the situation where multiple developments (User Story; Task under an Epic or ICD) are delivered 
simultaneously, a single Smoke type testing will be performed.  
• Smoke tests can be included in a single User Story \Task, in a single "PRL Smoke Testing" type sub -
test execution  
• In case Smoke testing is not performed on a User Story, the "PRL Smoke Testing" Sub Test Execution 
will be put in Aborted status, leaving a comment with the User Story number on which it was tested.  
If a step from the Smoke testing failed, the following apply:  
• Smoke testing is considered failed (Failed) — the purpose of Smoke testing is to verify if the 
environment and main functionalities are stable; if an LX is "Failed", detailed testing is not continued.  
• In case of identifying Bugs during the execution of Smoke scenarios a BUG type Issue is opened 
following the steps here. The step on which it was identified being marked with FAIL.  
• After the bug has been retested and the fix has been resolved, the step on which it was identified is 
modified to PASS status.  
• Bugs reported following Smoke testing must have the "Smoke" label and the "Development 
environment" field filled with the value "Prelive". In exceptional cases, if the bug was not fixed there 
must be a comment at the US level requesting conditional accepta nce from the tester to the @PO with 
open bugs for promotion into Live.  
• Additional testing on that build in the prelive environment is interrupted, until the defect is fixed and 
Smoke testing is resumed.  
• After fixing, the Smoke testing is resumed in full, to confirm the environment is stable again.  
--- Page 45 ---
Only the LXs that will be run are added, LXs or test steps with Aborted status are not accepted.  
Evidence is no longer attached on the LX steps from Sub test Execution.  
 
04. PRL (Prelive) Testing (*)  
The PRL Testing Sub -Test Execution will automatically be created in the Sub -Tasks section upon opening the 
User Story.  
In case the US does not already have a created sub test execution, it is added according to 00. Create Sub test 
execution and Transition (*) .  
To fill in the time destined for testing, the tester will access the Edit option from the PRL Testing section and 
modify the Original Estimate field from the initial value of 1 minute to the estimated time for testing.  
Cloning the UAT Sub Test Execution and modifying the name is not accepted. In exceptional cases, if cloning 
is performed, the LXs that are not executed are obligatorily deleted and only those that will be executed are 
left on the Sub Test Execution.  
In the PRL (Prelive) test environment the following will be executed:  
• Happy path LXs (at least 1) - adding the LX/LXs is done as here.  
• It is mandatory to retest bugs (discovered in UAT) with Major, Blocker severity, Bugs with other 
severity types are NOT retested  
• For bugs identified in UAT, it is Mandatory to retest and check the check box - Retested in PRL  
• In case of identifying Bugs during the execution of scenarios in PRL a BUG type Issue is opened 
following the steps here.  
• The step on which it was identified being marked with FAIL status.  
• Mandatory to fill in upon opening the BUG the PRL development environment.  
• After fixing the Bugs the tester has the obligation to retest them according to the workflow defined in 
04. Retesting a bug fix (*)  
• After the bug has been retested and the fix has been resolved, the step on which it was identified is 
modified to PASS status.  
• Bugs reported following PRL testing must have the "Development environment" field filled with the 
value "Prelive". In exceptional cases, if the bug was not fixed there must be a comment at the US level 
requesting conditional acceptance from the tester to t he @PO with open bugs for promotion into Live  
• At the end of testing, all steps on the scenarios added to the Sub test Execution must have the PASS 
status.  
Testing on the Sub -Test Execution can only begin if the Smoke Testing task was performed and all steps have 
the PASS status.  
Only the LXs that will be run are added, LXs or steps from LX with Aborted status are not accepted, in 
exceptional cases, if a step has an Aborted status, there must also be a justification on the respective step in 
the comments section.  
If the LX is not relevant to be tested in the PRL test environment, it is not added to the Sub Test -Execution.  
--- Page 46 ---
Evidence is no longer attached on the LX steps from Sub test Execution.  
 
05. Regression Testing (*)  
The Regression Testing Sub -Test Execution will automatically be created in the Sub -Tasks section upon 
opening the User Story and will be run according to 04. Regression Tests Execution (*)  
In case the User Story does not already have a created sub -test execution, it will be added according to 00. 
Create Sub -Test Execution and Transition.  
To fill in the time destined for testing, the tester will access the Edit option from the Regression Testing section 
and modify the Original Estimate field from the initial value of 1 minute to the estimated time for testing.  
Regression Testing will represent the last testing stage in the PRL test environment, thus:  
• In the PRL test environment the LXs created in X -Ray, in the dedicated folders of each Scrum, with 
the name "Regression Tests" will be executed.  
• On each Epic/ICD there must be at least one executed "Regression Tests" type Sub Test Execution.  
• Regression Tests will be run after finalizing the testing in PRL.  
• It is not run on each individual User Story  
In the situation where multiple developments (User Story; Task under an Epic or ICD) are delivered 
simultaneously, a single Regression type testing will be performed.  
• Regression Tests can be included in a single User Story \Task, in a single sub -test execution named 
"PRL Regression Testing".  
• In case Regression testing is not performed on a User Story, the "PRL Regression Testing" Sub -Test 
Execution will be put in Aborted status, adding a comment with the User Story number on which the 
testing was performed.  
• In case of identifying Bugs during the execution of regression scenarios a BUG type Issue is opened 
following the steps here. The step on which it was identified being marked with FAIL status.  
• If there is a test scenario with „Failed” status, there must be a reported Bug with the „regression” label 
and the "Development environment" field filled with the value "Prelive". In exceptional cases, if the 
bug was not fixed there must be a comment at th e US level requesting conditional acceptance from the 
tester to the @PO with open bugs for promotion into Live.  
• After fixing the Bugs the tester has the obligation to retest them according to the workflow defined in 
04. Retesting a bug fix (*)  
• After the bug has been retested, the step on which it was identified is modified to PASS status.  
Only the LXs that will be run are added, LXs or test steps with Aborted status are not accepted  
If the LX is not relevant to be tested in the PRL test environment, it is not added to the Sub Test -Execution  
Evidence is no longer attached on the LX steps from Sub test Execution.  
 
  
--- Page 47 ---
03. Bugs Workflow (*)  
To identify a bug, the following steps are followed:  
• The problem that appeared in the scenario validation, which does not coincide with the flow described 
in the specifications, is identified and tracked.  
• Attempting to reproduce the bug by repeating the steps that led to the error's appearance. The goal is 
to observe if and when the bug is reproduced. If the problem continues to reproduce, a bug is opened 
in Jira.  
• The bug is verified on multiple application versions, on multiple clients, and is tested under multiple 
conditions to confirm it reproduces in various situations.  
• The steps followed, the exact details entered (client ID, what fields were filled, etc.) are noted 
according to the documentation 03. Reporting a Bug in Jira (*)  
• After the identification and opening of the bug, the developer will take it over and handle its fixing. At 
the end, the developer will set the Status to "Resolve" and detail the cause in the "Cause" field before 
closing the bug.  
More specifically, the bug goes through the following stages:  
• Bug reporting  – Jira is used for bug reporting and the fields on the bug reporting page are filled in 
according to 03. Reporting a Bug in Jira (*)  
• Bug investigation  – the responsible person is the assigned developer. They reproduce the bug, analyze 
it, estimate the effort for fixing it, and transmit to the tester if more details are necessary;  
• Bug fixing (Fix)  – the developer writes the remediation code;  
• Bug testing/verifying  – The responsible person is the one who opened the bug (reporter). In 
exceptional situations, the Product Owner can designate another person from the team to retest the 
bug. This is done by modifying the Assignee.  
The person who opened the bug ensures that it has been fixed, retesting the affected scenarios and including 
regression testing, according to 04. Retesting a bug fix - QA - Confluence. If the bug persists, it is reopened.  
01. What is a Bug (*)  
A bug is an error, defect, or imperfection in the design, implementation, or operation of a software program 
or a technical system.  
Bugs can appear for various reasons, such as:  
1. Programming errors: Mistakes in the code written by developers.  
2. Logic problems: The code works according to the instructions, but the implemented logic is incorrect.  
3. Specification errors: Differences between what was requested to be implemented and what was 
actually created.  
4. Unexpected conditions: The system or software encounters scenarios it was not designed to handle.  
5. Interface errors: Integration problems between different modules or systems.  
01. Types of bugs / "Category" Field (*)  
--- Page 48 ---
When opening a bug in Jira, it is necessary to fill in the Category field to appropriately classify the identified 
bug. 
Attention must be paid to modifying the initial Category with which the bug was opened. In case the developer 
changes the bug's category e.g. from Bug to Non -bug, it is indicated that the Tester notifies their Team Leader.  
Each category of bug identified in Jira has a different behavior and can appear in different situations. Below 
you can find a synthesis of each option that can be selected in the bug Category field:  
Bug category  Description  Who can set 
the category  
BUG  It is a real error in the application that affects functionality, 
performance, or user experience. Ex: A form that does not submit 
correctly.  Tester  
 
 
Developer  
Gap It is a missing or unimplemented functionality, which should have 
existed according to the business process. It can appear due to 
incomplete communication between the business, analysis, 
development, and testing teams. It is not necessarily an error, but a  
lack of coverage in the requirement. Ex: In the MBK application, 
the user can view the balance, but does not have the option to 
download an account statement — although this function is 
essential for the user. Ex.: An approval process has 3 steps in 
reality, but the application completes only 2.  
 
 
It is discussed with the scrum team to confirm it is a real oversight 
and it is decided whether to create a new requirement or update the 
existing specifications in case the project deadline is not modified. 
The development and testing of the new requireme nt is planned in 
a future sprint.  Tester  
 
 
Developer  
Settings  Problems caused by incorrect configurations or lack of 
configuration (e.g.: permissions, parameters, environment). 
Example: The application does not work correctly due to a wrong 
setting in the configuration file.  Tester  
 
 
Developer  
Non-bug Situation reported as a bug, but which proves to be intentional 
behavior or according to the specifications. Example: An error 
message that correctly appears in case of an invalid input.  Developer  
--- Page 49 ---
Bug category  Description  Who can set 
the category  
Incomplete 
specifications  The requirements or documentation do not provide enough 
information to correctly validate the application's behavior. 
Example: It is not clear how a function should behave in certain 
scenarios. More information is detailed in the dedicated page The 
bug fro m the Incomplete specifications category  Tester  
Development 
during testing  The tested functionality is still under development, so the behavior 
can be unstable or incomplete. Example: A page is tested that does 
not have all the components integrated yet.  Tester  
Modified 
technical 
solution  The application's behavior changed as a result of a technical 
decision, without this modification being added to the 
specifications.  Tester  
 
 
Developer  
Duplicate  Bug already reported previously; it is a duplication of an existing 
error. Example: Two testers report the same problem at different 
times.  Tester  
 
 
Developer  
Live behavior  Behavior already existing in the live version of the application, so 
the bug is not produced by a recent modification. Example: An 
error that also appears in live, not just on the test environment. For 
this type of bugs, it will be discussed in the scrum t eam if a new 
user story is opened.  Developer  
Legacy  Inherited behavior from old versions of the application, which has 
not been corrected until now. More details about this bug category 
can be found here  Tester  
 
 
Developer  
Improvement  It is not an error, but a suggestion for optimizing or improving the 
functionality or user experience.  Tester  
 
 
Developer  
--- Page 50 ---
Bug category  Description  Who can set 
the category  
Performance  The code works correctly, but moves slowly or consumes many 
resources. Ex: slow queries, inefficient loops. More details about 
this bug category are located here.  Tester  
 
 
Developer  
02. Examples of bugs (*)  
To give you a clearer idea of how a bug must be structured, you can find an example below.  
Very important!  
When detailing a bug, it is mandatory to correctly and completely fill in the fields containing the bug's details 
according to the complete documentation from section 03. Reporting a Bug in Jira (*). Among the most 
important fields to fill in so that the p roblem is understood as well as possible by the developer are:  
• Bug detailing  
• Steps to reproduce - in which it is mandatory to add:  
o Actual result - what happens in reality, the error identified at the moment the test is executed.  
o Expected result - the expected result. What is desired at the moment of executing the test, 
according to the requirement.  
• Image with the identified error  
03. Reporting a Bug in Jira (*)  
In Jira, there are 2 methods for reporting a bug, given by the situations in which it is identified:  
• Reporting a bug from the LX execution flow within a User Story. The workflow is documented here  
• Reporting a bug within the Scrum project, without executing an LX. The workflow is documented here  
For each bug category, it is mandatory that the information from the displayed pop -up be filled in according 
to the flow documented on the individual pages.  
The time spent for opening the bug will be logged on the Testing sub test execution where the bug was 
identified (UAT/PRL/Smoke/Regression Testing). When the bug is retested, the time spent for retesting will 
be logged on the bug.  
ATTENTION!  
If multiple distinct problems are identified within the same flow, each bug must be opened separately in Jira. 
This working procedure helps with:  
• correct prioritization of each problem that appeared  
• allocating the bugs to multiple developers  
• tracking progress and fixing each bug.  
--- Page 51 ---
The easiest way we can tell that the identified bugs are distinct is by checking the steps to reproduce. If 
different steps must be followed to reproduce a bug compared to another problem in the same flow, a separate 
bug will be opened.  
Bug reporting during the execution of an LX (*)  
The most frequently encountered method of identifying and reporting a bug is the one in which the bug is 
discovered at the moment of executing an LX at the Sub Test Execution level within the User Story.  
If the result on a step is not according to the Expected result, meaning it is Failed, a Bug will be opened:  
• The bug is automatically linked to that LX and Test Execution.  
• By pressing the + button next to the Defects field belonging to the test step  
A pop -up will open which must be filled in with the details identified in the bug.  
The displayed pop -up will be filled in according to the table below:  
Field  Instruction/ Value to be filled in  
Project  The Scrum where the bug was discovered. Even in situations where the bug is 
Legacy and will be linked to a general bugs Epic, the Project field will be filled 
with the scrum in which the testing was done.  
Issue Type  BUG  
Summary  Short and descriptive title for the bug  
Assignee  The name of the developer who handled the development of the requirement (US). 
In case a developer to whom the bug should be assigned is not identified, Assignee 
will be filled with the Scrum Master's name, who will discuss the developer's 
prioritization o f the bug in recurring meetings  
Category  BUG  
Reproducibility  There are 2 values in the dropdown list that are used: Always and Sometimes. 
Depending on the reproducibility of the discovered bug, we choose one of the 2 
options.  
 
 
Always - This status is used when the bug can be reproduced accurately every 
time, following the same steps  
 
 
--- Page 52 ---
Field  Instruction/ Value to be filled in  
Sometimes - This status is used when the bug appears only under certain conditions 
but not every time and may depend on variable factors.  
Severity  The severity of a bug indicates the technical or functional impact of the problem 
on the application or users. Choosing the appropriate severity is essential for 
correct prioritization of bugs and efficient organization of resources.  
 
 
Trivial - Used for minor problems that have a negligible impact on functionality 
or user experience. The bug does not significantly affect the application's use and 
does not require an urgent fix. Usually, this type of defect is cosmetic (e.g., minor 
displ ay errors or incorrect texts), does not interfere with the main flows of the 
application, and has no impact on performance.  
 
 
Minor - Used for problems that have a low impact on functionality or user 
experience. The bug does not prevent normal use of the application.  
 
 
Medium - Used for problems that have a moderate impact on functionality or user 
experience. The bug does not block normal use of the application, but can affect 
certain functionalities or create inconveniences for users. The problem is not 
critical, but re quires correction to improve the application's performance.  
 
 
Major - Used for problems that significantly affect functionality, but do not 
completely block users. These are priorities for resolution, but the application 
remains usable under certain conditions. Used when a critical function does not 
work correctly, b ut workarounds exist, the impact on users is significant, but not 
completely blocking.  
 
 
Blocker - Used for critical problems that completely block the use of a function or 
the entire application. These bugs require immediate resolution. Used when an 
essential functionality for the application is completely non -functional, users 
cannot access or use the application at all, or the problem leads to data loss.  
--- Page 53 ---
Field  Instruction/ Value to be filled in  
Influenced 
applications  The information is taken from the user story, from the Requirement section → 
Influenced applications.  
Development 
environment  Filled depending on the test environment in which the respective bug was found, 
UAT or PRL  
Bug detailing  A detailed explanation of the problem.  
Steps to 
reproduce  Step-by-step. Details on how the problem appears. Clear and ordered steps are 
added + if applicable, the link where the error was found, user, user role, etc.  
 
 
Also in this section must be included the Actual Result (what happens in reality) 
and Expected Result (what was supposed to happen)  
Labels  The information is taken from the user story, from the Details section → Labels  
Linked Issues  Relates to/blocks* → *Blocks. we use it when we have Blocker in the Severity 
field. The field is mandatory and must be filled in with the reference User Story.  
Issue  US number  
Sprint  - 
Component/s  - 
Attachment  It is mandatory to add a representative image where the incorrect functioning can 
be observed  
Reporter  Filled automatically with the name of the person who identified the bug.  
Bug reporting at Scrum/Jira Project level ( -) 
Reporting a bug directly from the Scrum project is done when the bug is not linked to either an LX or a User 
Story. In this case, the bug becomes the main source of information. It must be written as completely as 
possible so that the team can understand, reproduce, and treat the identified problem.  
Attention!  
Bugs that do not have an LX or User story will remain separately as items in the backlog and will require 
planning from the scrum team.  
--- Page 54 ---
If it is decided that the bug should be transformed into a Change Request / User Story, the Tester will 
obligatorily open another bug. This will represent the initially opened bug, which was converted into a US. 
The new bug will be linked to the newly crea ted User Story.  
How to open a bug at the Scrum/Jira Project level:  
From any page of the Scrum where the bug was identified, by pressing the Create button from the Menu bar:  
A pop -up will open containing the fields that must be filled in:  
Field  Instruction/ Value to be filled in  
Project  The Scrum where the bug was discovered. Even in situations where the bug is 
Legacy and will be linked to a general bugs Epic, the Project field will be filled 
with the scrum in which the testing was done.  
Issue Type  BUG  
Summary  Short and descriptive title for the bug  
Assignee  In case a developer to whom the bug should be assigned is not identified, Assignee 
will be filled with the Scrum Master's name, who will discuss the developer's 
prioritization of the bug in recurring meetings  
Category  A value from the drop -down list is selected, depending on the type of identified bug  
Reproducibility  There are 2 values in the dropdown list that are used: Always and Sometimes. 
Depending on the reproducibility of the discovered bug, we choose one of the 2 
options.  
 
 
Always - This status is used when the bug can be reproduced accurately every time, 
following the same steps  
 
 
Sometimes - This status is used when the bug appears only under certain conditions 
but not every time and may depend on variable factors.  
Severity  The severity of a bug indicates the technical or functional impact of the problem on 
the application or users. Choosing the appropriate severity is essential for correct 
prioritization of bugs and efficient organization of resources.  
 
 
--- Page 55 ---
Field  Instruction/ Value to be filled in  
Trivial - Used for minor problems that have a negligible impact on functionality or 
user experience. The bug does not significantly affect the application's use and does 
not require an urgent fix. Usually, this type of defect is cosmetic (e.g., minor displ ay 
errors or incorrect texts), does not interfere with the main flows of the application, 
and has no impact on performance.  
 
 
Minor - Used for problems that have a low impact on functionality or user 
experience. The bug does not prevent normal use of the application.  
 
 
Medium - Used for problems that have a moderate impact on functionality or user 
experience. The bug does not block normal use of the application, but can affect 
certain functionalities or create inconveniences for users. The problem is not 
critical, but re quires correction to improve the application's performance.  
 
 
Major - Used for problems that significantly affect functionality, but do not 
completely block users. These are priorities for resolution, but the application 
remains usable under certain conditions. Used when a critical function does not 
work correctly, b ut workarounds exist, the impact on users is significant, but not 
completely blocking.  
 
 
Blocker - Used for critical problems that completely block the use of a function or 
the entire application. These bugs require immediate resolution. Used when an 
essential functionality for the application is completely non -functional, users 
cannot access or use the application at all, or the problem leads to data loss.  
Influenced 
applications  The application in which the bug was identified  
Development 
environment  The test environment where the respective bug was found, UAT or PRL  
Bug detailing  A detailed explanation of the problem.  
--- Page 56 ---
Field  Instruction/ Value to be filled in  
Steps to 
reproduce  Step-by-step. Details on how the problem appears. Clear and ordered steps are 
added + if applicable, the link where the error was found, user, user role, etc.  
 
 
Also in this section must be included the Actual Result (what happens in reality) 
and Expected Result (what was supposed to happen)  
Labels  Labels related to the identified problem are noted, to classify the bug as correctly 
as possible.  
Epic Link  In case there is no Epic in the scrum for the bugs that are not linked to a User Story, 
the identified bug is linked to the Legacy bugs Epic of the Testing team 
https://jira.libra.bank/browse/STAM -161 
Linked Issues  - 
Issue  Left blank because it was not identified during the testing of a User Story  
Sprint  - 
Component/s  - 
Attachment  It is mandatory to add a representative image where the incorrect functioning can 
be observed  
Reporter  Filled automatically with the name of the person who identified the bug.  
04. Bug Categories (*)  
Bugs can be classified depending on their nature, impact, moment of identification, or cause.  
Also, bugs identified in the tested applications can be opened differently in Jira, depending on the moment of 
their identification and their typology.  
The most frequently encountered types of bugs met during the activity are:  
• Performance Bug  
• Improvement Bug  
• Legacy Bug  
• Regression Bug  
--- Page 57 ---
• Smoke Bug  
• Incomplete specifications Bug  
• Ui/UX Bug  
In each dedicated chapter, you will learn what each type of bug represents and you will find out techniques 
for opening them.  
04. Retesting a bug fix (*)  
After the developer has confirmed fixing a bug in the test environment, the Tester has the obligation to retest 
the bug and verify if the previously signaled problem has been fixed.  
What aspects must be considered when retesting a bug:  
• Follow the “Steps to reproduce” detailed in the bug;  
• Choose the appropriate test environment for retesting the bug, depending on what was noted in the 
“Development environment” section;  
• Verify if the bug is still reproduced after the fix, following the execution of all reproduction steps.  
Depending on the result following the bug retesting, the steps below are followed:  
The bug was fixed:  
• It is confirmed that the testing result complies with the specifications;  
• If relevant, a short negative testing is done to ensure no unforeseen aspects appear;  
• The bug's status is modified from In testing to Finalized.  
• In case the defect was opened based on an execution: the step's status is modified from Fail to Pass.  
The bug is still reproduced:  
• The bug's status is modified to Re -open;  
• A comment is left on the bug attaching evidence that the bug is still reproduced;  
• The bug will be taken over by the developer for fixing.  
Retesting bugs in Prelive:  
During Prelive testing, the Tester has the obligation to retest the bugs identified in UAT testing, which had 
Major or Blocker severity.  
To validate that Major or Blocker bugs have been retested in PRL, the Tester will manually check the "Was it 
retested in Prelive?" checkbox, checking the "Yes" value.  
The Was it retested in Prelive? checkbox:  
• Is available at the BUG issue type level;  
• Can be accessed by pressing the Edit option;  
• The Tester will select the "Yes" value after retesting the bug in PRL;  
• It is no longer necessary to add images in case the bug does not reproduce in PRL.  
If the bug with Major/Blocker severity identified in UAT is reproduced when retested in PRL:  
--- Page 58 ---
• It is reopened by selecting the "Re -open" status;  
• A new printscreen is added, in which it is mentioned that the bug is reproduced in PRL;  
• The bug will be taken over by the developer for fixing.  
In exceptional cases where the Product Owner decides that a bug identified in UAT or PRL will not be fixed:  
• it is mandatory for the Tester to request confirmation from the Product Owner that the bug will not be 
treated in the test environment where it was identified.  
• The Tester will leave a comment on the User Story like "the bug/the following bugs were not tested in 
UAT/PRL. I request acceptance for continuing testing in the next test environment / transitioning into 
Ready for release."  
• The Product Owner will return with a comment giving their OK.  
Note!  
The time spent for retesting the bug will be logged on the Bug  
05. Jira Bugs Workflow (*)  
Open  
The bug was identified and reported by the Tester, but has not been taken over by the developer.  
In progress  
The developer has taken over the bug and it is being worked on. The responsible person begins to investigate 
the cause of the bug.  
Ready for testing  
This status is set by the developer when they have fixed the reported bug.  
The developer must select the correct category in which the bug falls, choosing one of the existing values in 
the dropdown list: bug, change request, settings, non -bug, incomplete specifications, development during 
testing, technical solution change, dupli cate. 
Category details:  
• Bug = development error  
• Settings = will be selected when the development didn't work due to an unstarted service, unallocated 
rights  
• Non-bug = an issue that was opened as a bug, although this was normal behavior  
• Incomplete specifications = when the dysfunctionality is due to not treating the respective case in the 
specifications document  
• Development during testing = when the dysfunctionality appeared due to development while testing  
• Technical solution change = when the dysfunctionality appeared due to changing the technical 
solution, following the testing results  
• Duplicate = the same dysfunctionality has already been signaled  
In addition, the developer must detail the cause, in the Cause field, before closing the bug.  
--- Page 59 ---
In testing  The tester takes over the bug for retesting after the fix. The tester must ensure that the request 
categorization is correct. Otherwise, they modify it before finalizing the request.  
The tester confirms that the bug is resolved and that the solution works correctly. Treating and resolving the 
bug according to expectations will be confirmed by pressing the “Finalized” button.  
The final status of the bug will be FINALIZED  
If the bug was not fixed following the checks performed by the Tester, they will return the bug to the developer 
by pressing the Re -open button. The developer will take over the bug for fixing.  
Other statuses:  
If the developer finds that the description of the encountered error is incomplete, the requirement will be sent 
back to the Tester by pressing the "Return" button. The next status will be Returned.  
In the situation above, the tester who reported the bug will bring the necessary additions and will send the bug 
to the developer by pressing “Respond”. The next status will be Responded. The bug will be treated again 
starting from the In progress status.  
On Hold  can be set when the bug is put on hold until finding a solution  
Cancelled  can be set when the bug is canceled for various reasons.  
The transitions on statuses are highlighted in the diagram below:  
 
  
--- Page 60 ---
04. Incidents Workflow (*)  
The tester tests the incidents for which they are the Reporter or which are assigned to them by the Product 
Owner of the team they are part of.  
What tasks must be created for Incidents:  
• Defining scenarios (sub -task)  - assignee to the Tester who will define the test scenarios. Test scenarios 
for Incidents do not need to be validated by the Product Owner.  
• UAT Testing (sub -test execution)  - the task is mandatory;  
o assignee to the Tester who will test in UAT;  
o if multiple testers will test on the same Incident - each tester will make their separate sub -test 
execution.  
• PRL Testing (sub -test execution)  - the task is mandatory;  
o assignee to the tester who will test in PRL;  
o if multiple testers will test on the same Incident - each tester will make their separate sub -test 
execution.  
For testing incidents, both in the UAT test environment and in PRL, evidence will NOT be added following 
the performed testing.  
It is recommended that Incidents NOT be estimated in Story Points. In case the testing is lengthy, it can be 
decided in the scrum team that the Incident be transformed into a User Story.  
Resolving incidents can be done directly on Live under the following conditions:  
• major impact on the business, where resolution time is essential  
• there is no test environment or data for replication, where the problems appear only in production and 
cannot be replicated on the test environment  
• if it is a punctual correction (workaround), where a correction patch already validated on a test 
environment exists (the specific case has been encountered before), this can be applied directly on live 
until the cause is resolved (which may take time).  
Under other conditions, major / urgent incidents are resolved on PRL, validated and applied on live.  
00. What is an Incident? (*)  
An incident represents any unplanned interruption of an IT service or reduction of its quality. The incident is 
identified in Live (not on the test environments) by a user, a Tester, a developer or a monitoring system.  
Examples of incidents:  
• The server is down.  
• The application does not respond.  
• The service performance is very low.  
• Users cannot authenticate.  
• Online payment failed for users.  
--- Page 61 ---
• The displayed data is incorrect or incomplete.  
At the moment of identifying an Incident, a ticket is opened in Jira, of the Incident type. The incident is 
officially recognized by the team as being real and affecting the service and the users.  
Process of managing an IT incident in Jira:  
1. Reporting  – Someone observes the problem and creates a ticket in Jira.  
2. Registration  – The incident is opened in Jira.  
3. Classification and prioritization  – The severity and impact are established.  
4. Assignment  – The incident is assigned to a developer or the support team.  
5. Investigation and remediation  – The cause is identified and the solution is applied.  
6. Testing / confirmation  – It is verified if the service works again.  
7. Resolution and closure  – It is confirmed that the incident has been fixed and it is closed.  
01. Defining Test Scenarios for Incidents (*)  
The same steps are followed as in the documentation 02. Manual Test Scenarios Definition Workflow (*)  
Atypical situations for defining test scenarios for an Incident:  
• An attempt is made to identify an LX suitable for the flow that will be tested.  
• In case an already created LX is not identified, a new one is created. It is recommended to create new 
LXs only if the scenario described in the ticket does not already have a written LX - the minimum 
requirement is 1 positive LX.  
• The created LX will have to contain the "Incident" Label to be able to differentiate between an LX 
resulting from testing an Incident and one resulting from testing a User Story.  
• The LX will be linked to https://jira.libra.bank/browse/STAM -157 
• The newly created LX will be added into an existing subfolder that describes the tested flow.  
• Otherwise, and if there is no subfolder with the tested flow within the Incident, a new subfolder 
"Incidents Scenarios" will be created.  
Scenarios for an Incident do not require validation by the Product Owner.  
02. Executing Test Scenarios for Incidents (*)  
The test scenarios for Incidents will be executed in both test environments, UAT and PRL, by adding the LXs 
in the Sub Test Execution according to the workflow from chapter 02. Executing Test Scenarios Workflow (*)  
• UAT Testing  – a Sub -test execution will be created - the sub -task is mandatory;  
o assignee to the Tester who will test in UAT;  
o if multiple testers will test on the same Incident - each tester will make their separate sub -test 
execution.  
o if it is found that the Incident has not been fixed in UAT, a comment is left mentioning this fact 
and the Incident is reopened for fixing.  
o for the situation above, an image is added to demonstrate that the Incident is still reproduced.  
--- Page 62 ---
• PRL Testing  - a Sub -test execution will be created - the sub -task is mandatory;  
o assignee to the tester who will test in PRL;  
o if multiple testers will test on the same Incident - each tester will make their separate sub -test 
execution.  
o if it is found that the Incident has not been fixed in UAT, a comment is left mentioning this fact 
and the Incident is reopened for fixing.  
o for the situation above, an image is added to demonstrate that the Incident is still reproduced.  
For testing incidents, both in the UAT test environment and in PRL, evidence will NOT be added on the 
execution of the LX steps following the performed testing.  
For Incidents, the Demo meeting is not held.  
03. Jira Incidents Workflow ( -) 
The Incident is no longer reproduced and has been resolved correctly:  
• The tester modifies the status from Requires confirmation into Ready for release.  
The Incident is still reproduced:  
• The Incident's status is modified to Re -open;  
• A comment is left on the Incident attaching evidence that the Incident is still reproduced;  
• The Incident will be taken over by the developer for fixing.  
The workflow for treating an Incident is found below:  
Reporting an Incident (*)  
For any dysfunctionality observed in Live, an Incident will be initiated in production in the Production project 
in Jira, not a bug.  
The Incident will not be reported by the Tester, but at the request of the team's Product Owner, they can open 
the Incident in Jira.  
 
  
--- Page 63 ---
05. Working with Xray Library (Xray Test Repository) (*)  
X-ray is a testing Add -on (submodule/tool), integrated in Jira. The purpose is to create a library of updated 
scenarios that can be reused in future testing.  
Accessing the Xray Library  
The user logs into Jira by accessing the link: https://jira.libra.bank  . Then writes xray in the Search field and 
selects Xray Library (LX) from the Projects section of the drop -down list, accessing Xray Test Repository.  
In the Xray Test Repository, test scenarios (LXs) are created in two ways:  
• automatically, following the instructions presented in 01. A AI test scenario generation workflow - 
UIPath (draft) - QA - Confluence .  
• manually, following the instructions presented in 02. Identifying and creating tests in Xray - QA - 
Confluence.  
Regardless of the method of creating test scenarios, the storing/depositing method in the Xray Test Repository 
will be respected, according to Rules \Structure for the Xray Library (*) - QA - Confluence.  
Creating folder/subfolders in Scrum projects  
How to add a new subfolder  
1. Select the parent folder with the scrum's name and press the “+” icon at the bottom of the page.  
2. Modify the name of the sub -folder from “New folder” to the name of the flow, functionality or the 
name of the section from the tested application.  
to add a mention that they cannot delete folder/subfolder - must ask TL for support.  
Rules \Structure for the Xray Library (*)  
In the Xray Test Repository, tests are kept organized in dedicated subfolders opened within the Scrum team's 
parent folder. The opening of these subfolders is presented here.  
The types of subfolders that must be found within each Scrum team's parent folder are grouped as follows:  
• flows/functionalities/sections subfolders  
• subfolders containing smoke tests  
• subfolders containing regression tests  
• subfolders containing tests automatically generated with UIPath Test Manager  
• subfolders containing archived tests  
Rule! Tests are always created and kept in the dedicated subfolder, and not in the parent folder. !!!  
These tests, which are erroneously found in the parent folder, will be selected (multiple selection via Ctrl+left 
mouse click) and will be moved, most simply, through the drag&drop method, into the subfolder dedicated to 
the respective targeted area/flow/f unctionality:  
!!! In the same way presented above, tests generated automatically with Test Manager - UIPath will be moved, 
from the Test Manager Drafts subfolder to the subfolder dedicated to the respective area/flow/functionality 
within the parent folder of a Scrum tea m. 
--- Page 64 ---
It is the responsibility of the testers to constantly ensure that there are no tests saved/created directly in the 
parent folder of the Scrum team in which they carry out their activity.  
Flows/functionalities/sections subfolders  
This type of subfolders are created / will be created (as the case may be), immediately under the parent folder 
of the Scrum team, according to the steps here.  
It is recommended that the tester:  
1. searches in the team's confluence area (example Scrum Wallet at Libra Journey (Wallet) - Libra 
Journey (Wallet) - Confluence, in the image below); if it exists, subfolders are created based on the 
structure  
2. If the area from step 1 does not exist, the subfolder structure and subfolder naming should be 
established within the team, together with the BA/PO.  
The subfolders are named after the name of the flow, functionality or section of the tested application.  
Within these subfolders are created / added (moved) only tests with a status different from Archived, which 
test the flow, functionality or section from the subfolder's name.  
Smoke Tests Subfolder  
This type of subfolder is created / will be created automatically, immediately under the parent folder of the 
Scrum team, according to the steps here.  
Within these subfolders are created / added (moved) only smoke tests with a status different from Archived. 
Smoke tests are defined here.  
Regression tests subfolders  
This type of subfolders are created / will be created automatically, immediately under the parent folder of the 
Scrum team, according to the steps here.  
The subfolders are named Regression tests.  
Within these subfolders are created / added (moved) only regression tests with a status different from Archived. 
Regression tests are defined here.  
IMPORTANT!  
within this subfolder it is necessary to create subfolders based on the structure from here.  
Test Manager Drafts Subfolder  
This type of subfolder is created / will be created automatically, immediately under the parent folder of the 
Scrum team.  
1. Within these subfolders, the tests generated in UIPath Test Manager are automatically added according 
to the workflow here.  
2. After their update, if applicable (eliminating/adding/updating steps, modifying steps order, adding 
labels, etc.), these tests will be manually moved by the user into the corresponding subfolder from the 
Scrum team's parent folder.  
Archived tests subfolders  
--- Page 65 ---
This type of subfolders are created / will be created (as the case may be), within the parent folder of the Scrum 
team, according to the steps here.  
The subfolders are named Archived.  
Within these subfolders are added (moved) only tests with Archived status. Details about archiving tests can 
be found here.  
Filtering LXs in Xray  
There are situations where:  
• upon manual initiation of a test (LX), filling in the field was omitted / the Test Repository Path field 
was saved with erroneous values  
• after initiation, it was erroneously moved into a subfolder  
• the user wants the quick identification of a certain test  
For the quick identification of the sought tests (and where it is required according to the rules here, their 
movement into the correct subfolder), the filtering tool will be used:  
• the user will position themselves on the All folder and press the Filter button  
• For the fastest / most exact identification, the Advanced option will be used, where the user creates 
their best filter/query; searches the test by a keyword from the name (summary) and the name of the 
one who created the test and the calendar date/period in which it was created and test status; practically 
any additional filter leads to a faster identification of the sought test:  
example: type = Test and Summary ~ rating AND Reporter = firstname.lastname AND CreatedDate <= now() 
AND Status = "Finalized scenarios" ,  
 
  
--- Page 66 ---
02. Regression Tests Workflow (*)  
Regression testing is a type of software testing that aims to verify whether recent changes in the code (such as 
adding new features, fixing errors, or modifying requirements) have not negatively affected the existing 
functionalities of the application. Th us, it ensures that the software continues to function as expected after 
updates.  
Main characteristics of regression scenarios:  
• They cover critical flows and essential functionalities to ensure the stability of the application after 
modifications.  
• They are periodically updated to reflect the real state of the application and to eliminate tests that are 
no longer up -to-date.  
• They have a clear structure and correct labeling (label „Regression”, organized by flows).  
• Any type of positive, negative, and UI/UX tests can become a good candidate for regression.  
Steps for defining regression scenarios:  
1. Each team must define its own regression scenarios, depending on the specifics of the tested 
application.  
2. Before creating new scenarios, check the Xray folders if there are already written tests that can be 
reused. Depending on the situation, we have 4 options:  
• Variant 1:  Each team goes through the folders in Xray containing tests marked with the Regression 
label and evaluates:  
o If the Test covers the complete flow → it is moved to the subfolder corresponding to the flow 
from the regression tests  
o If the test can be completely executed → it is kept  
o If there are differences between the test and the current flow (AS IS) → additions are made  
o If the test partially covers a flow, the test is cloned and the steps are deleted or necessary 
additions are made to correctly reflect the regression flow.  
o If the test is no longer up -to-date, its status is changed to "Archived"  
• Variant 2:  Check in the Xray library by the flow name and if it can be used  
o Add label: "regression"  
o Set Priority = set according to 04. Regression tests priority (*)  
• Variant 3:  if you find nothing relevant, create the scenario from scratch, with the same rules:  
o label= regression, Priority= set according to 04. Regression tests priority (*)  
• Variant 4:  Upon completing the testing of a new development at the US/EPIC level  
o it is evaluated if the steps from the already tested LX are relevant for a new regression testing  
▪ All steps are relevant: add the regression label and move to the dedicated folder.  
▪ Certain steps are relevant: the LX is cloned and the steps are updated (added/deleted).  
--- Page 67 ---
o label= regression, Priority= set according to 04. Regression tests priority (*)  
Eligible types of tests for regression  
• Positive tests  
• Negative tests  
• UI/UX tests  
• Any type of test covering critical functionalities can become a candidate for a Regression Test  
Running regression tests  * Test environment restoration (UAT/PRL)  
• Major Release (live launch of an important project/new application)  
• Minor Release (live launch of a new development, Epic/ICD)  
• Major code changes, library updates, optimizations, system integration  
Below is information about the execution of regression tests:  
Situation  Description  Execute?  When?  
Test environment 
restoration  Test environment restoration: 
UAT and PRL  Yes - Partial 
regression on 
Urgent and High 
priority LXs  After finishing the test 
environment 
restoration, after the 
successful execution 
of Smoke tests  
Major Release  Release (Launch in live) for an 
important project with impact in 
multiple systems \applications or a 
new application (e.g.: Flow, TPH, 
AA) Yes - Complete 
regression  After deploying all 
requirements in PRL, 
after the successful 
execution of Smoke 
tests 
Minor Release  Release (Launch in live) of a new 
project development (e.g.: 
Implementation of an Epic/ICD)  Yes - Partial 
Regression 
(running should 
take maximum 
12h) After deploying all 
requirements in PRL, 
after the successful 
execution of Smoke 
tests 
Major changes to 
existing code  Refactoring of the calculation 
method for commissions  No - Partial 
Regression 
(running should 
take maximum 
12h) Upon request (or 
included in the testing 
after an environment 
restoration)  
--- Page 68 ---
Situation  Description  Execute?  When?  
Update of 
libraries / 
external 
dependencies  Frontend framework update 
(React, Angular, etc.)  No - Partial 
Regression 
(running should 
take maximum 
12h) Upon request (or 
included in the testing 
after an environment 
restoration)  
Performance 
optimization  Reducing response time for API 
requests  No - Partial 
Regression 
(running should 
take maximum 
12h) Upon request (or 
included in the testing 
after an environment 
restoration)  
Modifications in 
backend / system 
integration  Integration of a new anti -fraud 
system  No - Partial 
Regression 
(running should 
take maximum 
12h) Upon request (or 
included in the testing 
after an environment 
restoration)  
Activity reporting:  
All activity defining regression scenarios will be reported in Jira in ATQ -47 - Jira project doesn't exist or you 
don't have permission to view it.  
For the actual testing, a Sub Test Execution is opened, which will be generated automatically along with the 
other three and will bear the name: PRL Regression Testing.  
In case a US does not require regression testing, this Sub Test Execution will be marked as Aborted.  
Other important aspects:  
• Not all USs will have regression tests  
• Regression testing is done at the build/deployment/US level  
Validation of Test cases (LXs)  
• Validation of regression LXs by the PO is not mandatory  
• The PO can ask for the revision of test scenarios, adding test scenarios or adding new business flows  
Automation  
• after they are validated, the regression test cases (LXs) become candidates for automation and enter 
the automation process; see "procedure for taking over tests to automation" (WIP)  
• Priority for automation will have to be dictated by the manual testing team that worked on the LXs  
o one must consider how much the automation of LXs helps, taking into account the manual 
execution time of the tests  
o how often a manual test repeats  
--- Page 69 ---
Maintenance of business flows, Test cases and the Regression suite  
• Regression test cases will enter a continuous maintenance circuit - they will have to be reviewed 
periodically by the Testers  
• As the application \project advances, new implementations will always come, and the test cases will 
suffer modifications  
o as new implementations appear, the testers assigned to the project will have to evaluate the 
impact on the existing regression suite  
o modifications can occur following functional changes  
o modifications can occur following technical limitations or changes  
o some tests can become irrelevant or redundant and can be closed \removed from the suite  
01. What are Regression Tests? (*)  
Regression tests consist of re -executing functional and non -functional tests to verify if functionalities that 
worked previously continue to function correctly after modifications (bug -fixes, improvements, optimizations, 
etc.). They are essential for ensur ing the continuous stability and quality of the application over time.  
Purpose of regression tests  
• Verification of existing functionalities:  Ensures that recent modifications have not negatively 
affected the already implemented functionalities.  
• Detection of collateral effects:  Identifies defects accidentally introduced into other areas of the 
application.  
• Maintaining application stability:  Contributes to delivering a stable and predictable product in 
production.  
• Validating integration between systems:  Confirms that interactions between applications or modules 
remain functional after modifications.  
Why are Regression tests important?  
• Ensures the application's stability after code modifications, launches, or environment restorations, 
preventing defects in already existing functionalities.  
• Detects collateral effects of new developments or refactorings, even in apparently unaffected areas.  
• Validates integration between systems in case of projects with broad impact (e.g.: Flow, TPH, AA), 
where a modification can affect multiple applications.  
• Optimizes the testing effort by reusing existing tests and running them automatically, where possible.  
• Allows flexible and efficient testing, adapted to the context: complete regression for major releases, 
partial regression for punctual modifications or Urgent + High priorities.  
• Supports launch decisions in production, providing confidence that the application works correctly 
after each development stage or technical intervention.  
What do Regression tests usually cover?  
• The existing functionalities of the application, to verify if they continue to function correctly after code 
modifications, deploy, or environment restoration.  
--- Page 70 ---
• Critical business flows, including those that cross multiple applications or systems (e.g.: Flow, TPH, 
AA) (account opening, user authentication and authorization, scheduled and recurring payments, 
currency exchange, balance inquiry, etc.)  
• Areas directly or indirectly affected by new developments, refactorings, optimizations, or integration 
of external systems.  
• Test cases with high priority (Urgent and High), especially in partial regressions.  
• Interactions between modules and systems, to prevent collateral effects in dependent applications.  
• The application's behavior in positive, negative, and UI/UX scenarios, depending on the identified 
risks.  
02. Defining Regression Test Scenarios ( -) 
The tests included in the Regression package must meet the following criteria:  
• The name of the regression LX will contain in the title the Scrum team, the name of the 
flow/functionality and "Regression scenario"  
• It is labeled and organized appropriately - It has the regression label, is added in the correct 
folder/subfolder and is easily identified in Xray.  
• LXs must be maintained, checked and updated  
• Covers critical business flows - The test validates essential functionalities such as: payments, account 
opening, transfers, card administration, credits, savings, etc.  
• Is current and relevant - The test reflects the current state of the application (as -is) and can be fully 
executed, without blockages or outdated steps.  
• Is reusable and stable - The test has already been successfully executed previously and can be run 
repeatedly without frequent modifications.  
• Is clearly documented - Includes explicit testing steps, relevant test data and well -defined expectations.  
Recommendations:  
-For an LX that goes through windows/screens - recommendation to have 1 LX for each screen (all menus/tabs 
must be gone through in a screen); if there are screens that are accessed using another LX - call test to the LXs 
needed to reach the screen  
-For flow LXs 1 complex LX  
-1 successful login LX - extract login steps from existing LXs, make a separate login LX to be called by the 
other tests  
-1 or more LXs with rights for specific roles - for the screens/menus/tabs highlighted in the displayed page, 
after login  
-Negative and UI/UX testing LXs  
It is recommended to use the call test function as often as possible where possible.  
Recommendations for regression test independence  
1. One test = one clear regression objective  
--- Page 71 ---
• Do not combine multiple complex checks in a single scenario (e.g. „client data modification + payment 
initiation + statement generation”).  
• Scenarios must be separated: „client data modification test”, „payment initiation test”, „statement 
generation test”.  
2. No dependencies between tests  
• A regression test must not assume another test has already run (e.g. the transfer test does not assume 
the login test has run).  
• Each test does its own setup (e.g. login, creating test data), using call test for common steps.  
3. Isolated and reproducible test data  
• Avoid using the same test data for multiple scenarios (e.g. the same bank account for all tests).  
• Use automatically generated data or standardized sets, to prevent conflicts and ensure repeatability.  
4. Minimize complex integration dependencies  
• Regression tests must validate clear functionalities and flows, not cover all possible integrations in a 
single scenario.  
• Example: an interbank transfer test validates only the transfer, not the SMS notification or integration 
with other systems, unless these are the objective of the test.  
5. Run tests in parallel  
• Write tests so they can be executed simultaneously, without blocking each other. If they cannot be run 
in parallel, there are hidden dependencies that must be eliminated.  
6. Avoid „chain” type scenarios  
• Do not create very long regression scenarios, with multiple steps dependent on each other.  
• Complex end -to-end tests can exist separately, but regression must be granular and easy to diagnose.  
General recommendations for regression:  
• Cover critical flows and high -risk areas.  
• Keep tests clear, independent, and easy to maintain.  
• Do not go into margin details or complex validations, unless relevant to regression.  
• Periodically review the regression package to eliminate outdated tests and add relevant scenarios.  
Recommendations for organizing regression tests  
• Tests must be added in Xray in the Scrum folder - "Regression tests" subfolder with an opened 
subfolder for each flow  
• Must have label = regression  
• Set Priority = set according to 04. Regression tests priority ( -) 
What to include in a regression test  
• Verification of existing functionalities after code changes, deploy, or environment restore.  
--- Page 72 ---
• Coverage of critical banking flows: account opening, transfers, payments, card administration, credits, 
savings, currency exchange, balance inquiry, generating statements, etc.  
• Validation of integrations and interactions between systems (e.g.: ANAF, Credit Bureau, anti -fraud, 
internal modules).  
• Testing both positive scenarios (happy path) and negative ones (e.g.: invalid data, missing 
permissions).  
• Checking application stability in all relevant environments.  
• Covering recent modifications and high -risk areas, including functionalities directly or indirectly 
affected by new developments, refactoring or optimization.  
Orientation Guide for regression tests:  
No. Tested Aspect  Description  Concrete 
Example / 
Testing Steps  Expected Result  
1 Coverage of 
critical business 
flows  Tests essential 
functionalities for 
business continuity  Payment 
initiation, account 
opening, 
interbank transfer  Prevents major defects 
that can affect clients 
or daily operations  
2 Currency and 
relevance  The test reflects the 
current state of the app 
and can be fully 
executed  Test updated after 
the last release  Ensures correct 
validation of existing 
functionalities after 
changes  
3 Independence  The test does not 
depend on running 
other tests and has its 
own setup  Client data 
modification test  Allows parallel 
running and rapid 
identification of 
failure cause  
4 Isolated and 
reproducible test 
data Uses dedicated, auto -
generated data or 
standardized sets  Unique test 
account for each 
execution  Avoids conflicts and 
ensures execution 
repeatability  
5 Coverage of 
positive and 
negative scenarios  Includes both success 
and error flows 
relevant to regression  Successful 
transfer and 
transfer with 
invalid data  Ensures detection of 
both functional and 
validation defects  
6 Correct priority  Priority reflects the risk 
and impact of the 
tested functionality  Test for critical 
function = 
Urgent/High  Optimizes execution 
time and focuses on 
high-risk areas  
--- Page 73 ---
No. Tested Aspect  Description  Concrete 
Example / 
Testing Steps  Expected Result  
7 Stability across all 
environments  Has the same behavior 
and results in all test 
environments  Balance view test  Ensures consistency 
and reliability in 
execution  
8 Clear 
documentation  Includes explicit steps, 
relevant test data, well -
defined expectations  Test with detailed 
steps and clear 
data Eases test 
maintenance and 
updating  
9 Correct 
organization and 
labeling  Has „Regression” 
label, placed in the 
right folder/subfolder  Test with correct 
label and folder  Facilitates rapid 
identification and 
selection of tests for 
regression execution  
 
  
--- Page 74 ---
01. Initial Elicitation of Business Flows from the Product Owner ( -) 
Laura is looking at this '  
Guide for Creating Business Flows for a Regression Suite  
The role of the Product Owner (PO) is crucial to ensure that all critical business flows are correctly represented 
in the regression test suite. The purpose of this guide is to provide the necessary steps to define and create 
efficient business flows that cover all essential scenarios so that the Testing department can create a Regression 
suite and be able to maintain product quality.  
A business flow is a sequence of actions that a user or a system goes through to achieve a specific goal within 
the application or project. It is a representation of how users interact with your product to reach a certain result.  
Business Flows are essential for regression testing, because they reflect how the product's functionalities are 
used in real life. They ensure that the modifications brought to the application do not negatively affect the 
existing functionalities.  
After the business flows have been finished and documented, it would be ideal for them to be listed in a 
structured form so that the same structure can be transposed into a similar structure of folders and test cases 
in Jira Xray.  
The list will have to be sent to the Testing team within the project, together with any written documentation 
or support material for the described flows.  
Suggestions for the initial documentation of Business Flows  
Identifying Business Flows  The first step is identifying the business flows that are essential for the 
functioning of the product \project.  
• Product Analysis:  Find out what functionalities are available, what are the main objectives of the 
application, and how it is structured from a technical and functional point of view.  
• Knowing the Users:  Identify and understand the user categories and roles (personas) that use the 
application. What needs and goals do they have? What tasks are they trying to accomplish by using 
the product? What permissions do they have?  
• Reviewing Requirements and Documentation.  Review the documentation and \or requirements to 
understand which functionalities are essential for the application (or project) and what expectations 
exist regarding performance and security. Examine the user stories and the backlog to identify the 
busine ss flows that are already described in the requirements. These offer a direct perspective on the 
steps the users will follow.  
• Mapping Business Processes.  Use process mapping techniques, such as BPMN (Business Process 
Model and Notation), to create diagrams describing the specific steps in each business flow. These 
diagrams should include all actions, decisions, and interaction points with the system. Durin g mapping, 
pay special attention to decision points, branches, and critical interaction points, because these are 
essential for an efficient business flow.  
• Collaborating with Stakeholders.  Collaborate with stakeholders, including the development team, 
the testing team, and end users, to understand the existing business flows and identify new ones. 
Discussions with them can reveal flows you didn't initially consider. Organize work sessions t o define 
and validate business flows. In these workshops, gather feedback and ensure that the proposed flows 
correctly reflect the business requirements and the users.  
--- Page 75 ---
• Validating Flows.  Test and validate business flows with real scenarios, meaning how users would use 
the application in everyday life. This step helps to ensure that the identified flows are realistic and 
cover all possible cases.  
The final goal is creating a structure of flows like in the table below, the goal is not the complete documentation 
of the flows, existing documentation will be used as much as possible.  
Priority  Flow 
Name  Details  Documentation  Roles  
1 Name 
Flow1  Here it will be filled with 
details about Flow1; 
important actions of the 
user and the intermediate or 
final expected result  Diagrams, written 
documentation (Confluence or 
any other type), Jira user 
stories or epics, printscreens 
etc for Flow 1  Product 
Owner, 
Business 
Analysts  
1 Name 
Flow2  Here it will be filled with 
details about Flow2; 
important actions of the 
user and the intermediate or 
final expected result  Diagrams, written 
documentation (Confluence or 
any other type), Jira user 
stories or epics, printscreens 
etc for Flow 2  Product 
Owner, 
Business 
Analysts  
2 Name 
Flow3  Here it will be filled with 
details about Flow3; 
important actions of the 
user and the intermediate or 
final expected result  Diagrams, written 
documentation (Confluence or 
any other type), Jira user 
stories or epics, printscreens 
etc for Flow 3  Product 
Owner, 
Business 
Analysts  
3 Name 
Flow4  Here it will be filled with 
details about Flow4; 
important actions of the 
user and the intermediate or 
final expected result  Diagrams, written 
documentation (Confluence or 
any other type), Jira user 
stories or epics, printscreens 
etc for Flow 4  Product 
Owner, 
Business 
Analysts  
Example of listing Creatio CRM business flows below  
• allocating and reallocating clients (contact and LegalEntity) with different criteria:  
o active account (allocation attempt by user from the branch with the owner, allocation by 
superior from the same branch with the owner, allocation user and superior from another branch 
different from the owner's, allocation and reallocation for user from he adquarters for superior 
of the owner)  
o customer status (allocation attempt by user from the branch with the owner, allocation by 
superior from the same branch with the owner, allocation user and superior from another branch 
different from the owner's, allocation and reallocation for user from h eadquarters for superior 
of the owner)  
o related account  
--- Page 76 ---
o ownership status active  
o + activity/opportunity registrations with ownership deadline calculation according to 
implemented rules  
o scenarios for related account with inactive ownership status  
• for opportunities - job competencies  
For starters, non -functional type flows and requirements (performance, accessibility, compatibility, security) 
will be captured separately and will not be included in the regression tests, regression suites will be considered 
strictly functional.  
The priority of the flows will correspond directly to the priority of the tests that emerge from the flows. More 
details here: 03. Regression Tests Priority  
Running all tests resulting from the business flows for priority levels 1 + 2 + 3 will mean running a Complete 
Regression.  
A partial regression can be the execution of regression tests with tests of a certain priority or a regression on 
a certain functional \or code area of an application.  
Documenting Business Flows  
For the test cases resulting from the business flows to be written as well as possible, a detailed description of 
the business flows and any documentation material is needed.  
• Diagrams:  Diagrams can be used (and it is recommended to use them) so that the business flows are 
visible. These diagrams should illustrate the main steps, decision points, and possible results. Where 
using diagrams is not possible, a detailed description of the fl ows can be used. Already existing 
diagrams will be used as much as possible.  
• Detailed Description:  For each business flow, clearly document each step, including user actions, 
expectations, and check points. Make sure the documentation is detailed enough for the testing team 
to be able to transform it into test cases.  
• Using User Story Scenarios:  Link business flows to user stories and functional requirements to ensure 
that all critical aspects are covered.  
Collaborating with the Testing and Development Team  
Documenting business flows must be considered a team effort and for this, communication with the project 
team must be constant until the final form of the flows is reached.  
• Validation Workshops:  work sessions can be organized with the testing and development team to 
review the proposed business flows. This helps identify potential gaps and ensures everyone has the 
same understanding of the flows.  
• Continuous Feedback:  Encourage continuous feedback from the testing team during the creation and 
updating of business flows, to ensure they can create efficient test cases.  
Monitoring and Maintaining Business Flows  
Once the flows have been created and documented, they enter a continuous maintenance cycle. New 
functionalities, changes in roles and permissions, or maybe even the disappearance of some conditions or 
entire flows means that the documentation and tests wil l have to be adapted.  
--- Page 77 ---
• Periodic Reviews:  Business flows must be reviewed periodically to reflect the modifications brought 
to the product. Make sure any change in the product is updated in the business flows documentation.  
• Adapting to Changes:  As the application evolves, ensure that the business flows are updated to 
include new functionalities or to reflect the modifications of the existing ones.  
• If a User Story or a specific requirement is known to affect the regression business flows, this is good 
to be mentioned and communicated to the Testing team in the project.  
Communication and Traceability  
• Ensuring Traceability:  Each business flow should be traceable to the requirements and \or user stories. 
This helps validate that the regression tests cover all critical requirements.  
• Efficient Communication:  Good communication must be maintained with all stakeholders to ensure 
that the business flows are correctly understood and implemented in the regression tests.  
Validating Tests  After the business flows have been transmitted to the Testing team on the project and after 
the tests have been written by the Testing team, they are sent for validation to the Product Owner (and to the 
Application Owner - where applicable).  
This validation is important to ensure that the tests cover the business flows and the expected results following 
the running of the tests as well as possible.  
The better the tests cover the business flows, the earlier important defects can be caught.  
The validation process will be similar to the one for User Stories. If an LX is not considered complete or does 
not cover the need of the business flow, it can be sent back for revision with the appropriate mentions.  
The reasons why test cases can be sent back for revision to the Tester are documented here Scenario validation 
- QA - Confluence.  
 
  
--- Page 78 ---
02. Evaluating existing tests for Regression (*)  
Evaluating regression tests refers to how we analyze the efficiency, coverage, and impact of regression tests 
within the quality assurance process.  
This activity can be an independent/autonomous one - in case the business flows are not documented (or there 
is no clarification from the PO regarding flows and priorities), the activity can be started internally.  
The tests chosen for regression should include:  
• Frequently used functionalities  
• Modules affected by recent modifications  
• Complex and integration cases  
• Tests that have frequently failed previously or covered recent defects  
The selection of regression scenarios is done based on:  
• the risk of affecting the existing code,  
• the implementation's complexity,  
• the dependency on critical modules (e.g.: login, payments, dashboard),  
• the history of previous defects or instabilities in the respective area.  
• environment restoration  
• major release  
• minor release  
Reusing test cases - Initial analysis of already existing scenarios  
• Verify if there are already tests that cover the described business flow  
• Reusing already existing tests will be attempted as much as possible. For this purpose, any folder \test 
repository that might contain test cases (LXs) about the business flows for an application or project 
will be analyzed. Generally, the evaluation \analys is will be done within the same project but reusing 
some scenarios from other projects is not excluded if they are considered suitable.  
• the tests that can be reused can be:  
o already written tests with the purpose of a regression test - tests that have the "regression" label  
o already written tests for testing User Stories \Epics based on new 
functionalities \implementations.  
• Some business flows might already be covered by one or more already existing LXs. Those tests must 
be reused as much as possible. The tests will be moved into a new folder and can be included in the 
Regression Suite.  
o If a business flow is already covered by 1 or more LXs these will be reused for the purpose of 
Regression Testing.  
o If LXs already exist for a business flow they must be analyzed \evaluated and in case they are 
not up to date they will have to be edited with the new implementations.  
--- Page 79 ---
• If one or more LXs are already written and they represent prerequisites for the business flow for which 
the initial analysis is done, the LXs will be included using the "Call Test" functionality  
03. How to create regression tests in Jira/Xray(*)  
The tests are created like any other scenario according to 02. Identifying and creating tests in Xray - QA - 
Confluence  
The tests must be added in the SCRUM of each team in a dedicated subfolder named "Regression tests"  
The regression tests need Labels = regression  
The regression tests will have Priority set depending on The regression tests priority  
Regression is performed only for those User Stories that introduce modifications with direct or indirect impact 
on the existing functionalities or at the PO's request. - to review if it is needed here and not at execution  
For the User Stories that isolate completely new functionalities, without impact on the existing areas, coverage 
through regression is not necessary, but the performed tests can be taken into account for a future regression - 
to review if it is needed here  and not at execution  
04. Regression tests priority (*)  
Prioritizing regression tests when creating LXs  
Business flows must be prioritized according to multiple factors among which  
• frequency of use  
• impact on the business  
• their complexity  
• coverage of the most important actions and purposes of the application  
• importance for the client  
• importance for the project  
Critical flows, which are frequently used and have a major impact on users, should be tested with priority.  
The proposal is using a priority scale based on 3 levels: Urgent(Critical), High, Normal(Medium),  
Priority: URGENT  
• Definition: Essential tests for the basic functionality of the application, which must run immediately 
to prevent major blockages.  
• Includes: Critical flows (happy path), UI + backend interactions, simple security checks, visual 
integrity.  
Priority: HIGH  
• Definition: Important tests for complex scenarios or with major impact, which can affect the stability 
or security of the system.  
• Includes: Alternative flows, data validations, roles and permissions, systemic errors, high volume 
performance, simultaneous transactions, audit, backup, migration.  
Priority: NORMAL  
--- Page 80 ---
• Definition: Useful tests for ensuring a complete and coherent experience, but which do not directly 
affect critical functionality.  
• Includes: Complete navigation, interactions between modules, messages and notifications, rollback, 
compatibility, accessibility, general performance.  
More details and examples 05. Orientation guide for regression test priorities (*)  
05. Orientation guide for regression test priorities (*)  
Aspect / tested 
situation  Description  LX 
Priority  Regression 
/ smoke  Functional 
/ Non -
functional  Comments / 
Necessary 
actions  
Main flow  Tests the basic 
complete "happy 
path" flow  Urgent  Smoke / 
Regression  Functional  Critical for 
essential 
functionality  
Critical flows 
regression 
testing  Re-testing of 
flows that have a 
major impact in 
the system  Urgent  Regression  Functional  Stability check 
after deploy  
UI + 
backend/API 
testing  Verifies if the UI 
and backend 
communicate 
correctly  Urgent  Smoke / 
Regression  Functional  Validates 
communication 
between 
components  
Complete 
navigation 
through 
important 
screens  Goes through all 
important screens 
of the application; 
Goes through the 
application 
without complex 
actions – just 
click/tap on each 
screen  Urgent  Smoke / 
Regression  Functional  Verifies UI 
integrity and 
that no errors 
appear  
Simple 
security testing  Login, logout, 
session 
expiration, invalid 
passwords  Urgent  Smoke / 
Regression  Non-
Functional  Prevents 
unauthorized 
access  
Alternative 
flows and 
exceptions  Tests error 
scenarios, invalid High  Regression  Functional  Critical for 
stability and 
robustness  
--- Page 81 ---
Aspect / tested 
situation  Description  LX 
Priority  Regression 
/ smoke  Functional 
/ Non -
functional  Comments / 
Necessary 
actions  
data, unexpected 
conditions  
Persistent data 
validation  Confirms that 
modifications are 
saved correctly in 
the system  High  Regression  Functional  Essential for 
data correctness  
Role -based 
access testing  Confirms 
restrictions and 
permissions on 
roles  High  Regression  Functional  Critical for 
rights 
management  
System errors 
behavior 
testing  Verifies timeouts, 
unexpected 
errors, 
disconnections  High  Regression  Functional  Prevents 
blockages or 
data loss  
Test data 
completeness 
testing  Realistic, varied, 
mocked data  High  Regression  Functional  Ensures test 
reproducibility  
Secondary 
flows 
regression 
testing  Re-testing flows 
with medium 
impact  High  Regression  Functional  For ensuring 
general quality  
External 
systems 
integration 
testing  Verifies 
communication 
with third -party 
systems (e.g.: 
payments API)  High  Regression  Functional  Critical if 
external 
dependencies 
exist  
Multi -user 
flows testing  Simulating 
simultaneous 
concurrent access  High  Regression  Non-
Functional  Prevents 
conflicts and 
blockages  
--- Page 82 ---
Aspect / tested 
situation  Description  LX 
Priority  Regression 
/ smoke  Functional 
/ Non -
functional  Comments / 
Necessary 
actions  
Large volume 
data flows 
testing  Tests behavior 
with large data 
volumes  High  Regression  Non-
Functional  Ensures 
stability at high 
load 
Parallel 
transactions 
flows testing  Correct 
management of 
simultaneous 
transactions  High  Regression  Non-
Functional  Prevents data 
corruption or 
loss 
Complex 
validations 
flows testing  Verifies complex 
business rules  High  Regression  Functional  Confirms 
respect for rules 
and constraints  
Offline / 
reconnect 
flows testing  Behavior on 
connection loss 
and recovery  High  Regression  Non-
Functional  Prevents issues 
in unstable 
network 
conditions  
Advanced 
security flows 
testing  Penetration tests, 
SQL injection, 
XSS etc.  High  Regression  Non-
Functional  Protection 
against cyber 
attacks  
Audit and 
logging flows 
testing  Verifies the 
correctness of 
generated logs  High  Regression  Functional  Ensures 
traceability and 
compliance 
with norms  
Backup and 
restore flows 
testing  Ensures data 
integrity in 
recovery 
situations  High  Regression  Functional  Preparation for 
critical 
situations  
Data migration 
flows testing  Validation of 
migration 
correctness  High  Regression  Functional  Maintains 
continuity and 
data integrity  
Complete 
navigation Goes through all 
screens involved Normal  Regression  Functional  Verifies UI 
integrity for all 
--- Page 83 ---
Aspect / tested 
situation  Description  LX 
Priority  Regression 
/ smoke  Functional 
/ Non -
functional  Comments / 
Necessary 
actions  
through all 
screens  in flows, without 
errors  application 
screens  
Interactions 
between 
modules  Verifies 
communication 
between modules 
(e.g.: 
notifications, 
reports)  Normal  Regression  Functional  Important for 
system 
cohesion  
Performance 
and response 
testing  Verifies response 
times and general 
performance  Normal  Regression  Non-
Functional  Important for 
user experience  
Messages and 
feedback 
validation  Clear and useful 
messages in the 
flow Normal  Regression  Functional  For a good user 
experience  
Duration and 
complexity 
testing  Optimized flows 
for fast running  Normal  Regression  Functional  For maintaining 
pipeline 
efficiency  
Rollback/undo 
flows testing  Verifies action 
cancellation 
functionality  Normal  Regression  Functional  Ensures data 
recovery and 
error prevention  
Notification 
and alert flows 
testing  Validating correct 
sending of 
notifications 
(email, SMS, 
push)  Normal  Regression  Functional  Maintains 
efficient 
communication 
with the user  
Compatibility 
flows testing  Verifies 
functioning on 
diverse OSs, 
browsers and 
devices  Normal  Regression  Non-
Functional  Extends user 
coverage  
--- Page 84 ---
Aspect / tested 
situation  Description  LX 
Priority  Regression 
/ smoke  Functional 
/ Non -
functional  Comments / 
Necessary 
actions  
Accessibility 
flows testing  Complies with 
norms for users 
with disabilities  Normal  Regression  Non-
Functional  Increases 
inclusion and 
complies with 
legislation  
 
  
--- Page 85 ---
03. Regression Tests for new implementations (*)  
Change and impact analysis (Impact Analysis)  
• Clearly identify the new requirements or changes in the existing requirements (for example, functional 
documentation, diagrams, information in the User Story and \or Confluence).  
• Check with the team or Product Owner if the business flows are not already documented and prioritized 
- for more details 01. Initial Elicitation of Business Flows from the Product Owner ( -) 
• Perform an impact analysis to identify the functionalities that could be affected by the implemented 
changes.  
o Verify the system components that are linked to the recent modifications.  
o Identify all dependent areas that could be affected (e.g.: modules, databases, user interfaces, 
APIs).  
• Prioritize the functionalities that must be tested depending on the degree of risk and criticality - if 
priorities are not already made.  
Test Case - LX 
Before starting to create new test cases, first verify that there are no already created LXs: 02. Evaluating 
existing tests for Regression (*)  
If LXs that can be reused for the purpose of the tested User Story are not found, then new LXs will be created.  
• Regardless of whether it is an existing test case that will be reused or a new one, the LX will be added 
in the Xray structure within the project in the "Regression Tests" subfolder of each Scrum team.  
• The Regression LXs will receive the "regression" label.  
• Influenced Application field - the application must be added here, like for any other LX.  
• The Priority field will be used for mapping to the 3 priorities of business flows (by default when a new 
LX is created it will have Priority set to "Normal")  
o Test Case LX priority = Urgent - Priority 1  
o Test Case LX priority = High - Priority 2  
o Test Case LX priority = Normal - Priority 3  
• The LX's title will contain the name of the Business Flow - this can be found at the User Story level,  
o in the Summary field (the name of the User Story) or in the User Story field from the 
requirement  
o if the business flow cannot be found it is best to ask the Product Owner or the team  
Regression test cases will enter a continuous maintenance circuit.  
As the application \project advances new implementations will always come and the test cases will be updated 
by the tester.  
Maintenance of Test cases and the Regression suite  
• as new implementations appear, the testers assigned to the project (helped by PO and BA) will have to 
evaluate the impact on the existing regression suite  
--- Page 86 ---
o modifications can occur following functional changes  
o modifications can occur following technical limitations or changes  
o some tests can become irrelevant or redundant and can be closed \removed from the suite  
• some User Stories require new regression tests and for this they must be validated by the PO  
04. Regression Tests Execution (*)  
When is it performed?  
1. Mandatory - After each UAT or PRL restore based on the restore calendar it is done on the Epic in 
progress  
2. Mandatory - In the PRL phase of the Epic (project) (a broader regression of the application on areas 
that are usually prone to problems, important flows, after the successful running of the Smoke tests)  
3. Following various technical upgrades that require a regression testing - where DEV requires this 
validation  
4. At the request of the PO or Scrum team for any other changes that require regression testing  
more details here 06. Regression Testing Workflow (*)  
Regression testing consists of re -executing functional and non -functional tests after code modifications, to 
verify if things that worked before still work correctly.  
Regression tests will be run as follows after the restore calendar  
• at pre -established time intervals - every 3 months, after restore  
? 
How long is it tested?  * The testing period varies depending on the type of testing performed: total or partial 
(not to exceed 12h)  
• The specific testing period will depend on  
o how large the regression test suite is,  
o which tests are priority,  
o which tests are chosen for regression etc.  
In what order is it tested?  Happy path LX → Smoke Testing → Regression testing → Retesting critical Bugs  
The tests will be executed depending on priority - priority is best to come from the Product Owner 01. Initial 
Elicitation of Business Flows from the Product Owner ( -) 
If there is no priority from the Product Owner, the Testing team in the project will try as much as possible to 
prioritize the test cases - the team's opinion, especially the Business Analysts', will be asked as much as 
possible.  
If regression testing is not run on a User Story, the PRL Regression testing Sub Test Execution will be closed 
by setting the Aborted status.  
How is it tested?  * A sub -test execution is created - the sub task execution will be named PRL Regression 
Testing  
--- Page 87 ---
• The LXs are added in the sub -task execution - (Add existing Tests - JQL) the filter below can be used 
- example for the IMBK project,  
o type = Test and labels="regresie" and issue in testRepositoryFolderTests(LX, "Scrum MBK", 
"true") and status !=ScenariiFinalizate  
• (Optional) A test plan is created for the regression period for the project  
• (Optional) From the Test plan it is added from the "Test Execution" section  
It is no longer necessary to attach evidence for any type of testing: LX execution, UAT or Prelive testing, 
SCRUM or Waterfall testing, including in bug fixes retesting; evidence in bug reporting remains.  
Where is it tested?  Regression tests will be run on both the UAT environment and the PRL environment.  
Who tests?  Initially the Testing team \Testers who are assigned to the project.  
• Manual testers: will run the tests without the automated label; type = Test and labels="regresie" and 
priority = High and "Aplicatii influentate" = MBK and status !=ScenariiFinalizate and label != 
automated  
• Auto testers:  
o will run the tests with the automated label; type = Test and labels="regresie" and priority = 
Normal and "Aplicatii influentate" = MBK and status !=ScenariiFinalizate and label = 
automated or  
o will send the automatic test run report to the manual testing team - it must exist clearly  
• Long -term plan: a dedicated team that will run the tests - this team will have a rotation -based 
component  
Bugs  
Bugs will be linked to the LX at the time of execution at the steps in the LX - otherwise they do not appear in 
reporting  
How is progress tracked?  Within the project the Xray Reports section - Test Executions Reports or Test Plans 
Report  
Guide for the Tester - Best practices for Regression Test Cases ( -) 
Regression testing ensures that the modifications brought to the application did not introduce defects in the 
existing functionalities. To create a robust regression test suite based on business flows, a tester must follow 
a well -defined series of steps. T his guide offers a structured approach to write efficient regression tests.  
Analyze the Documentation:  Start by reviewing the relevant documentation, including business 
requirements, functional specifications, and business flow diagrams. Understand how each flow should work 
and what objectives it pursues. The flows will be listed, detailed, and documented by the Product Owner and 
BAs.  
Collaborate with BA and PO:  Discuss with the Business Analyst and the Product Owner to clarify any 
ambiguities and to gain the best possible understanding of the critical business flows.  
Establish the Key Points:  In each flow, identify the critical interaction points, such as data validation, 
transaction processes, or other essential actions.  
Business flows can be received from the Product Owner in the format below.  
--- Page 88 ---
Based on the received structure, the test structure in Xray can be created.  
Based on the priorities received from the Product Owner, the priority of the test cases can be established. The 
initial effort is estimated - ideally, the Scrum Master \PM for the SCRUM project will be notified and time will 
be allocated for this activity.  
1 Name 
Flow1  Here it will be filled 
with details about 
Flow1  Diagrams, written documentation (Confluence or any 
other type), Jira user stories or epics, printscreens etc 
for Flow 1  
2 Name 
Flow2  Here it will be filled 
with details about 
Flow2  Diagrams, written documentation (Confluence or any 
other type), Jira user stories or epics, printscreens etc for 
Flow 2  
3 Name 
Flow3  Here it will be filled 
with details about 
Flow3  Diagrams, written documentation (Confluence or any 
other type), Jira user stories or epics, printscreens etc for 
Flow 3  
Reusing test cases - Initial analysis of already existing scenarios  * Verify if there are already tests that cover 
the described business flow  
• Reusing already existing tests will be attempted as much as possible. For this purpose, any folder \test 
repository that might contain test cases (LXs) about the business flows will be analyzed. In principle 
within the same project but reusing some scenario s from other projects is not excluded if they are 
considered suitable.  
• the tests that can be reused can be  
o already written tests with the purpose of regression testing  
o already written tests for testing User Stories \Epics based on new 
functionalities \implementations.  
• Some business flows might already be covered by one or more already existing LXs. Those tests must 
be reused as much as possible. The tests can be copied \cloned \edited and \or moved to a new folder and 
can be included in the Regression Suite.  
o If a business flow is already covered by 1 or more LXs these will be reused for the purpose of 
Regression Testing.  
o If LXs already exist for a business flow they must be analyzed \evaluated and in case they are 
not up -to-date they will have to be edited with the new implementations.  
• If one or more LXs are already written and they represent prerequisites for the business flow for which 
the initial analysis is done, the LXs will be included using the "Call Test" functionality  
Prerequisites  
• Prerequisites must be noted and documented - they can be added in the "Description" section for the 
LX in Xray.  
• The prerequisites will include all the preceding steps to be able to start the LX itself and can be written 
in the form of free text - or a Confluence URL  
--- Page 89 ---
• If there are prerequisites already written in the form of LXs, these will be included in the LX steps 
using the "Call Test" function  
Defining New Testing Scenarios  
• Create Test Scenarios for Main Flows:  For each business flow, define testing scenarios that cover 
the main path (happy path) and all possible branches (edge cases). Scenarios should reflect the different 
ways users can interact with the application.  
• Including Negative Scenarios:  Do not limit yourself only to success flows; also create negative 
testing scenarios to verify how the system handles errors or unexpected behaviors.  
• The Test Case (LX) name will contain the name of the tested business flow (or at least a part of it)  
General Best Practices  
• Group Test Cases into Suites:  Organize tests into logical suites that reflect the structure of the 
business flows.  
• Each suite should correspond to a specific business flow. The structure will be like the one here 01. 
Initial Elicitation of Business Flows from the Product Owner ( -) 
• The LXs must cover the entire business flow, not just partially. Multiple LXs executed in a specific 
order can cover a business flow.  
• a business flow must be covered by at least one test case - LX. 
• The LXs that repeat (e.g. login into the application, navigation to a certain section of the application) 
will be called in the test using the Xray "Call Test" functionality  
• Negative scenarios must also be evaluated and added  
• Test cases should not contain steps that repeat in other test cases. If steps repeat, they must be called 
using the "Call Test" function from Xray  
• The LXs will have to be written as descriptively as possible - the final goal is direct automation based 
on the LXs.  
• The test steps must be clear and specific and ideally if the action has a result, the expected result must 
be written.  
• The test cases should ideally be written following the business flow, and the execution of test cases 
must be thought of as having a logical sequence.  
• Test Cases should not verify the same thing multiple times; limiting the "exhaustive" type testing will 
be attempted as much as possible  
• If a business flow requires multiple combinations of scenarios to be covered (e.g. users with different 
roles for different screens \application functionalities) using the most representative test data 
combinations will be attempted as much as possible thus  covering as many important cases as possible 
- but not all possible combinations to limit the testing effort  
• Regression LXs must receive the "regression" tag and Priority for the test case will be set depending 
on the priority of the Business flow  
• The manual test execution effort must be estimated (to be seen where it can be introduced)  
• The LXs will be added in the Regression Tests subfolder of each Scrum team  
--- Page 90 ---
• If it is not found, the folder of the application \SCRUM team will be created  
• Sub-folders will be created under the SCRUM project that will respect 1:1 the business flows structure 
received from the PO  
• Regardless of whether it is an existing test case that will be reused or a new one, the LX will be added 
in the Xray structure within the project.  
• The Regression LXs will receive the "regression" label  
• Influenced Application field - the application must be added here, like for any other LX  
• The Priority field will be used for mapping to the 3 priorities of business flows (by default when a new 
LX is created it will have Priority set to "Normal")  
o Test Case LX priority = Urgent - Priority 1  
o Test Case LX priority = High - Priority 2  
o Test Case LX priority = Normal - Priority 3  
Scenarios validation (optional for regression tests) ( -) 
A Product Owner (PO) can return the test cases to the tester after validation for several reasons, to ensure that 
the tests correctly cover the established requirements and standards. Here are some common reasons  
For any of the reasons below, the PO can send the test cases received from Testers back for rewriting.  
The reason why the test cases are sent back will have to be mentioned, either as a comment in the LX, or by 
email following the evaluation (procedure already existing for User Stories)  
Prerequisites  
• Prerequisites must be noted and documented - they can be added in the "Description" section for the 
LX in Xray.  
• The prerequisites will include all the preceding steps to be able to start the LX itself and can be written 
in the form of free text - or a Confluence URL  
• If there are prerequisites already written in the form of LXs these will be included in the LX steps 
using the "Call Test" function  
• If the PO notices that prerequisites are not noted where it is known they are needed, for this reason the 
PO can send test cases back for revision and rewriting.  
Incomplete Coverage of business flows  
• Lack of certain Testing Scenarios:  If the PO notices that certain business flows or functionalities are 
not covered by the test cases, they can request their completion or modification.  
• Omitting Critical Flows:  If the tests do not include critical scenarios or important use cases, the PO 
can request their inclusion to ensure complete coverage.  
Discrepancies between Requirements \Flows and Tests  
• Wrong Interpretation of Requirements:  If the tests seem to reflect a wrong interpretation of the 
business flows, the PO can request their correction to align better with the expectations.  
--- Page 91 ---
• Differences between Expected Results and Specifications:  If the expected results from the test cases 
do not correspond to the established expected results, the PO can request the revision of the tests.  
Lack of Clarity  
• Unclear or Ambiguous Instructions:  If the steps described in the test cases are not clear enough or 
are ambiguous, the PO can ask for clarifications or their rewording to avoid confusions in execution.  
• Insufficiently Detailed Expected Results:  The PO can request more details in the expected results 
section if these are not precise enough to determine the success or failure of a test.  
• Test Case with too many steps:  If the test case has way too many steps and becomes hard to follow, 
the PO can ask for their rewriting and \or splitting a test case into several.  
• Test cases do not respect the logical order in the business flow:  The test cases ideally should be 
written following the business flow, and the execution of the test cases must be thought of as having a 
logical sequence. If the PO notices that the normal business flow is not respected then they can ask for 
a revision  
Repetitive Tests or tests that verify the same thing multiple times  
• Test Cases have steps that repeat in other Test Cases:  Test cases should not contain steps that repeat 
in other test cases. If steps repeat, they must be called using the "Call Test" function from Xray to be 
able to maintain a logical structure of the tests. This workflow will be useful for test automation as  
well. For this reason the PO can send test cases back for revision and rewriting.  
• Test Cases should not verify the same thing multiple times;  limiting the "exhaustive" type testing 
detailed below will be attempted as much as possible. For this reason the PO can send test cases back 
for revision and rewriting.  
Lack of Negative Scenarios and Edge Cases  
• Omitting Negative Tests:  If the tests do not include negative scenarios (for example, invalid inputs 
or unforeseen behaviors), the PO can request adding them to verify the results of the tested applications 
and error displaying.  
• Lack of Edge Cases:  In case limit situations or rarer cases are not covered, the PO can ask for a 
revision to include these scenarios, essential for quality assurance.  
Discrepancies with Business Priorities  
• Inadequate prioritization:  If the tests do not correctly reflect the business priorities, meaning they 
do not focus on the most critical functionalities (according to the business flow priorities), the PO can 
ask for the realignment of the tests with the established priorities.  
• Ignoring the Impact on the Final User:  If the tests do not consider the impact on the final user 
experience, the PO can request adjustments to ensure that the tests reflect the way real users will 
interact with the application.  
The Need for Alignment with Recent Modifications  
• Modifications in Requirements or Business Flows:  If recent modifications were made in the 
requirements or business flows, and the tests were not updated to reflect these changes, the PO can ask 
for the revalidation or update of the tests.  
Ensuring Compliance with Quality Standards  
--- Page 92 ---
• Respecting Quality Standards:  If the tests do not respect the quality standards or the internal 
processes established by the team, the PO can ask for modifications to align with these standards.  
• The PO can request the revision of the tests to ensure that all completeness criteria are met, including 
all relevant use cases and business flows.  
Feedback from other team members  
• Suggestions from other team members:  If the PO receives additional feedback from other team 
members suggesting changes or improvements to the tests, they can return the test cases to include 
these suggestions.  
• Alignment with Client Expectations:  If the tests are not aligned with the expectations of the clients 
or final users, the PO can request adjustments to better reflect their needs and requirements.  
 
--- Page 93 ---
07. Agile \SCRUM Workflow (*)  
Agile is a flexible approach for software development, which encourages frequent deliveries, collaboration 
between teams, and rapid adaptation to changes. Scrum is an Agile framework that organizes work into short 
sprints, usually of 2 weeks, with clear ob jectives and validated deliverables.  
Agile/Scrum working mode (in the team's practice)  
2-week Sprints  
• Each sprint begins with a planning (Sprint Planning) where the tasks to be carried out are 
established.  
• Daily, a Daily Stand -up is organized, where each member communicates their progress, blockages, 
and the plan for the day.  
• At the end of the sprint:  
o Sprint Retrospective – what went well and what can be improved is discussed.  
Tools used:  
• Jira for tasks and backlog.  
• Confluence for documentation.  
• Xray for test management.  
Tester's specific tasks:  
1. Requirements and specifications analysis  
• Understanding business requirements and project documentation (e.g.: user stories, functional 
specifications).  
• Identifying critical or unclear areas that require additional clarifications.  
2. Testing planning  
• Defining testing strategies for new or existing functionalities.  
• Estimating the testing effort and defining the necessary types of tests (functional, regression, 
usability etc.).  
3. Writing test scenarios and cases  
• Creating test scenarios based on requirements (Test Cases).  
• Using a clear structure like Action / Data / Expected Result.  
• Organizing tests in tools like Jira + Xray.  
More details here: 01. Defining Test Scenarios Workflow - QA - Confluence  
4. Manual test execution  
• Running tests on various environments, browsers, or devices.  
• Verifying the functionalities' behavior according to requirements.  
• Retesting defects after fixing (retesting).  
--- Page 94 ---
5. Reporting and tracking defects  
• Reporting bugs in Jira.  
• Ensuring the defect description is clear and contains reproduction steps, obtained and expected 
results, screenshots/logs.  
• Collaborating with developers for clarifications and prioritization.  
More details here: 03. Bugs Workflow - QA - Confluence  
6. Validating fixes and regression  
• Verifying the correct resolution of defects (bug fix validation).  
• Executing regression tests to confirm that the modifications did not affect other functionalities.  
More details here: 06. Regression Testing Workflow - QA - Confluence  
7. Participating in Agile ceremonies (where applicable)  
• Participating in daily, sprint planning, analysis (grooming), and retrospectives.  
• Providing feedback related to testing coverage and identified functional risks.  
8. Documenting and updating tests  
• Updating test cases when modifications appear in the application.  
• Organizing and maintaining an updated and relevant test library.  
9. UI and UX testing  
• Verifying the interface's intuitiveness and the application's behavior in unforeseen scenarios.  
• Identifying potential blockages in the user experience.  
More details here: 04. UI \UX LXs - QA - Confluence  
10. Collaboration and communication  
• Active communication with the development team, BA, PO, SM etc.  
• Clarifying requirements or expected behavior for complex functionalities.  
For User Stories  
When the US is taken into testing, the "Testing Responsible" field must be filled in.  
• Defining scenarios (sub -task)  - assignee to the Tester who will define the scenarios  
• UAT Testing (sub -test execution)  - 
o assignee to the Tester who will test in UAT  
o if multiple testers will test on the same User Story - each tester will create a separate sub -test 
execution  
• PRL Testing (sub -test execution)  * assignee to the tester who will test in PRL  
o if multiple testers will test on the same User Story - each tester will create a separate sub -test 
execution  
--- Page 95 ---
00. What is Agile \SCRUM?  
Agile Methodology (SCRUM framework)  – A project management methodology characterized by 
sequentiality and taking over the project deliverables in successive iterations. Project specifications are 
defined in the form of user stories. The project is organized in sprints that have a defined sco pe and 
deliverable.  
Within a Scrum team, each member has a well -defined role, but collaborates closely to deliver functional 
and valuable products.  
Roles:  * Product Owner  – represents the person responsible for defining releases and the detailed 
implementation roadmap, for defining implementation deadlines and achieving them, as well as prioritizing 
the Scrum team's backlog (user stories and incidents) to facilitate the im plementation of requirements, while 
maintaining the conceptual and technical integrity of the deliverables. Most often, the activities are carried 
out in collaboration with the Business Analyst.  
• Scrum Master  – represents the person holding the Project Manager function within the Process 
Quality Management Division who ensures that the Scrum methodology is correctly applied, that the 
Definition of Ready and Definition of Done criteria are respected, that the B usiness Analyst and 
Product Owner define user stories and set acceptance criteria, creates the Sprint Backlog, Release 
Plan, creates and manages the project plan. Monitors progress and escalates impediments when 
necessary and ensures that Scrum ceremonies take place, achieve their purpose, and respect the 
Scrum methodology.  
• Business Analyst  – represents the person holding this function within the Process Quality 
Management division or in other divisions, who deals with the analysis of requirements registered in 
Jira and the drafting of functional specifications, which must reflect the busine ss need and provide all 
the details necessary for the technical analysis, development, and testing of the requirement.  
• Tester  – represents the person holding this function within the Process Quality Management 
division, but also the person from the Business divisions, who defines the test scenarios based on the 
functional specifications and who tests the developments to ensure i mplementation according to 
business requirements.  
• Developer  – represents the person from the IT Division allocated to implement the requirement in 
the IT applications.  
Also within the Scrum methodology, ceremonies are essential meetings that structure the team's work and 
support transparency and adaptation.  
Ceremonies:  
• Daily Sprint  – the daily 15 -minute ceremony during which each SCRUM team member answers the 
3 questions: What did I do yesterday? What will I do today? What impediments do I have?  
• Sprint Retrospective  – the ceremony in which the team analyzes the progress during the sprint, 
brings proposals to improve the working mode.  
• Planning  – the ceremony in which the Scrum team assumes user stories for the next period 
depending on the team's availability or velocity and details the User Stories into subtasks which they 
estimate in minutes/hours.  
--- Page 96 ---
• Analysis/Grooming  - the ceremony in which the detailed specifications of the user stories are 
presented, so that all aspects are clarified. During this meeting, the technical solution for each 
individual user story is also identified.  
• Planning Poker  – the technique of estimating user stories in terms of complexity, in Story points, by 
comparison with user stories already implemented by the team. To see how estimation is done in 
Story Points, you can go here.  
01. What is a User Story?  
Within a Scrum team, a User Story is a short, clear, and informal description of a functionality desired by the 
user expressed from their perspective, to highlight the value it brings.  
Definition:  
User Story = a functional requirement written from the end user's perspective, which expresses what they 
want to achieve and why.  
It is a core element of the Product Backlog and is used by the Scrum team to plan, develop, and deliver 
relevant functionalities in a Sprint.  
02. Ceremonies in Agile \SCRUM  
Within the Agile Scrum methodology, there are 4 main ceremonies (also called "Scrum events") that 
structure the team's activity:  
Below you can find a clear list of each ceremony and its explanation:  
1. Sprint Planning  
What it is:  
The session where the team decides which User Stories they will work on in the next sprint and how they 
will be implemented.  
Purpose:  
• Defining the Sprint Goal  
• Selecting the backlog items that can be completed  
• Detailing the necessary technical activities  
Recommended duration:  
Up to 60 minutes for a 2 -week Sprint  
2. Sprint Retrospective  
What it is:  
The team's meeting to reflect on the working mode and identify improvements for the next sprint.  
Purpose:  
• What went well?  
• What didn't go well?  
• What can we improve?  
--- Page 97 ---
Recommended duration:  
Up to 60 minutes for a 2 -week Sprint  
Note:  Most of the time, the Sprint Planning and Sprint Retrospective meetings are held together at the end 
of the sprint.  
3. Daily Scrum (Daily Stand -up) 
What it is:  
The daily 15 -minute meeting where team members synchronize their activity.  
Purpose:  
Answering the 3 questions:  
• What did I do yesterday?  
• What am I doing today?  
• What impediments do I have?  
Recommended duration:  
Exactly 15 minutes  
4. Analysis meeting (Backlog Grooming / Refinement)  
What it is:  
Periodic activity (not an official ceremony in the Scrum Guide) where the team clarifies, details, and 
prioritizes the backlog items.  
Purpose:  
• Clarifying requirements  
• Estimating User Stories  
• Preparing the backlog for the future sprint  
Recommended frequency:  
Up to 3 hours for a 2 -week Sprint  
03. Components of a User Story  
1. Title (Summary)  
A concise and clear description of the functionality or requirement that the user story addresses.  
2. Description  
Detailed explanation of the user's need, often expressed through a clear formula:  
"As a [user type], I want to [functionality] so that I can [benefit]"  
3. Acceptance Criteria  
The set of precise and verifiable conditions that must be met for the user story to be considered complete 
and accepted.  
--- Page 98 ---
4. Priority  
The level of importance of the user story for business or users, which influences the order in which it will be 
developed.  
5. Estimate  
The effort needed to implement the user story, jointly estimated by developers and testers, usually expressed 
in story points.  
6. Additional information (Attachments/Notes)  
Support materials such as documentation, sketches, mockups, or useful links that facilitate understanding 
and implementing the requirement.  
04. The role of a Tester in Agile \SCRUM  
The tester has the role of validating that the developments were made according to the specifications, by 
going through the test scenarios, respecting the Agile/Scrum working mode. In Scrum teams where this role 
is not covered, the responsibilities will be  ensured by the business resource allocated to that team.  
Responsibilities:  * provides input for team consolidation;  
• clarifies the user stories that will be presented in the analysis/grooming meeting, together with the 
Business Analyst, to understand the requirement to be tested and to contribute to completing the 
specifications, if necessary, before development begins;  
• identifies the prerequisites necessary for testing and requests team support to find them easily;  
• provides estimations in Story Points;  
• reports daily in Jira the time allocated for testing/defining scenarios/bugs;  
• assumes user stories they will test in the sprint, depending on the testing capacity, estimating the 
necessary hours for testing in the DEV2/UAT test environment and in PreLive as well as the number 
of hours for defining test scenarios;  
• defines the scenarios and tests the assumed user stories;  
• validates the test scenarios with the Product Owner and the Application Owner;  
• reports bugs, if any, and ensures their remediation;  
• identifies impediments and implements actions to reduce associated risks;  
• updates the list of impediments;  
• updates the status of tasks and User Stories;  
• presents the Demo for User Stories to the Product Owner or Application Owner then modifies them 
into the Approval Required status;  
• discusses impediments encountered by individual members and identifies solutions to motivate the 
team;  
• agrees on concrete actions to improve the activity in the next sprint.  
Sprint execution:  
--- Page 99 ---
➢ Start development -> while IT develops, the tester works on defining the test scenarios in Jira (Xray) 
(with IT and BA support) and organizing the prerequisites. The test scenarios are sent to the PO for 
validation (+ team in CC + other application owners , if applicable).  
➢ IT testing -> will be done with a minimum set of scenarios (what IT considers should be validated).  
➢ Code review -> after IT testing is finished (and before business testing starts), the patch is sent for code 
review. After completing the code review, the patch is moved to UAT and business testing begins.  
➢ Bugs identified in testing are opened in Jira and bug fixing is done in the development environment.  
➢ After bug fixing, corrections are moved to UAT and retested, and if all test scenarios are successfully run 
at the end in UAT, a demo is made to the PO or Application Owner to obtain acceptance. The PO will track 
the validation of the Definition of Done.  
*** In the Review (Demo) meeting, the PO can invite other stakeholders who are directly impacted.  
➢ The PO will transition the status in Jira on the accepted USs to Final Test status.  
➢ The initial code review is reviewed and the final patch is created (the same patch that will reach Live) and 
moved to Prelive.  
➢ Testing in Prelive (only smoke test -> testing the most important functionalities with the purpose of 
validating the good functioning of the application).  
➢ The tester will transition the User Story in Jira into Ready for Release status.  
➢ The Scrum Master runs through the mandatory checklist before implementation in Live.  
➢ Go Live planning by IT.  
➢ After implementation in production, IT will change the status on the US in JIRA from Ready for release 
to Live, no later than the day after go live.  
01. Defining Test Scenarios workflow in Agile \SCRUM  
Stage  Description  
Understanding the 
requirements  You carefully read the user story and the related acceptance criteria  
Clarifications with the 
team  You discuss with the BA, PO or developers to understand the 
functionality  
Identifying testing areas  You establish what functionalities and behaviors must be verified  
Creating test scenarios  You write detailed test scenarios, according to the structure: 
Action/Data/Expected result.  
--- Page 100 ---
Stage  Description  
Organization in Xray  You upload the scenarios into the corresponding folder from the Xray 
Test Repository  
Internal review  You ask for scenario validation from the PO/Application owner.  
Preparation for execution  You ensure the scenarios are clear, correct and ready for testing  
02. Executing Test Scenarios workflow in Agile \SCRUM  
Stage  Description  
Taking over test 
scenarios  You identify the prepared scenarios for the user stories included in the 
Sprint  
Creating test execution  You create a Sub -test Execution in Jira for the tested story  
Running scenarios  You run step by step each defined test scenario  
Updating test status  You mark each test as Pass, Fail, Executing, Aborted or Blocked, as 
appropriate  
Defect reporting  For any step that fails, you create a bug and link it to the respective step.  
Progress tracking  You update the testing progress in Jira.  
Retesting & closure  After fixing a defect, you retest it and update the test status.  
03. Bug Reporting in Agile \SCRUM  
Stage  Description  
Identifying the bug  Observing an unexpected or erroneous behavior  
Collecting information  Gathering steps, environment, data, evidence for the clear reproduction of 
the problem  
Creating bug in Jira  Filling in essential fields + relevant attachments  
--- Page 101 ---
Stage  Description  
Associating with user 
story  Linking to the story/test for traceability  
Communication  Informing the developer and tracking the status  
Retesting & closure  Verifying after the fix and closing if the bug is resolved  
04. DEMO Presentation in Agile \SCRUM  
The DEMO meeting is a presentation of the results of running tests in the UAT test environment, with the 
purpose of receiving acceptance from the Product Owner and Beneficiary.  
The DEMO meeting is held:  
• in the case of Scrum projects → within the sprints, after the completion of testing in the UAT 
business test environment - with a minimum of 2 days before the sprint ends, so that the Tester has 
enough time for testing in Prelive (smoke test)  
The Scrum Master is the one who sends the invitation to the demo meeting, after the testing in the UAT test 
environment has been finalized.  
To hold demo meetings, users and clients are prepared in advance, presenting the most relevant tested cases 
and any other case requested by the Product Owner or the Project Owner, alongside the evidence of the 
already tested scenarios.  
At the end of the demo meeting, the Product Owner and the Beneficiary will determine whether they grant 
acceptance (transitioning the User Story to the Final test status) or refuse and the User Story returns to the In 
testing status, where testing is resum ed. 
DEMO Checklist  
The tester is responsible for going through the list below and noting the problems \risks encountered.  
If they notice risks for any of the points on the list, the tester must notify their Team Lead to officially flag 
the risks to the Product Owner via email.  
1. Verify the validation of the test scenarios  
• Make sure there is validation on the test scenarios from the PO.  
2. Verify that there are no open bugs  
• Avoid situations where unvalidated functionalities or bugs block acceptance.  
• If there are bugs, the tester makes a list of bugs ordered by severity, with blockers being the priority.  
• The list will be sent to the Team Leader and the identified risks will be mentioned.  
3. Confirm Acceptance Criteria  
• Acceptance criteria are part of a user story and all must be met, tested, and validated to be presented 
in the demo.  
--- Page 102 ---
• Acceptance criteria are part of DoD (Definition of Done) and if at least one of the criteria cannot be 
presented in the demo, then the risk must be flagged to the TL.  
• If there are no acceptance criteria, contact the Product Owner to establish together which flows will 
be presented.  
• Confirm with the Product Owner that the flow you will present is relevant and is the one expected by 
the Beneficiary.  
• In case the Product Owner is not available, it is recommended to present a happy path in the Demo.  
• Make sure there are no ambiguities in the functional requirements and if there are, clarifications will 
be requested from the PO/BA.  
• Confirm the existence of updated documentation (specifications, user stories, mockups).  
To provide a clear picture of the DEMO content and the aspects that require attention, either a request for 
flow validation will be sent by email (for projects of low complexity), or a DEMO Preview meeting will be 
requested (for projects of high complexity ), where what will be covered and how it meets business needs 
will be presented.  
The request will be sent in advance to set expectations and obtain confirmation of the scenarios and flows 
that will be presented in the demo.  
4. Test data  
• Do not use manipulated test data that requires manual intervention - the normal business flow must 
be followed.  
• Confirm that the test data is clean, relevant. The test data presented in the DEMO must be data as 
close to production as possible, without improvisations (e.g.: manipulation in the database).  
• Make sure you have test data from the business that is relevant for the tested developments. To 
replicate the test data received from the business, IT colleagues will be called upon for the necessary 
imports from the Live environment to the test environmen t. 
• Business test data:  
o CUI/Client Id/CNP/IBAN/credit reports/users (rights)/financial documents (ANAF, CRC, 
Just etc).  
The tester has the obligation to verify through a quick test that the aspects below function properly:  
• Environment and Configuration  
o Ensure all external services and APIs are functional.  
o All integrated systems that are part of the environment you will present on are functional. (ex: 
IBS, T24, OpenKM, Sysmart).  
• Critical Functionalities  
o Test all main flows (happy path) that will be presented.  
o Verify error scenarios and displayed messages (no unexpected errors should appear).  
o Ensure all buttons, links, and UI actions work.  
• Performance and Stability  
--- Page 103 ---
o Run the app on relevant devices and browsers.  
o Check response times for key functions.  
o Monitor if crashes or freezes occur.  
• Visual Aspect and UX  
o Confirm that the design meets the requirements (colors, fonts, layout).  
o Check responsive design (desktop, mobile).  
• Data and Security  
o Ensure displayed data is correct and updated.  
o Verify that no sensitive data is visible.  
o Test authentication and authorization (correct roles).  
DEMO Preview  
Depending on the size of the project for which the DEMO meeting must be held, the tester / testing team has 
the responsibility to validate the deliverables together with the PO.  
The DEMO Preview will be held / transmitted (depending on the points described below) one day before the 
official DEMO meeting.  
The tester/testing team together with the Team Leader will establish the direction to go:  
1. In the case of projects with low complexity (e.g.: 1 -2 USs to be presented in the Demo), the tester 
will only send an information email requesting validation of the mentioned flows, according to the 
working procedure described here.  
2. In the case of projects with high complexity (especially when there is a large number of User Stories 
to be presented), a DEMO Preview meeting will be requested to validate the deliverables before the 
official demo, according to the working procedure descr ibed here.  
3. If major problems are identified for holding the demo meeting, the tester will notify the Team Lead, 
and the latter will send a notification to the PO with the identified risks, signaling that these could 
affect the demo's quality.  
1. Flow validation - DEMO Preview e -mail  
In the case of projects with low complexity (e.g.: 1 -2 USs to be presented in the Demo), the tester will only 
send an information email requesting the validation of the mentioned flows - see the proposed structure of 
the information email below.  
What the request email contains:  
• To: Product Owner, Business Analyst, Beneficiary, Tester, Testing TL, Testing Department Head, 
QM Division Director  
• Content:  *   User Stories included in the demo  
o   Relevant test scenarios  
o   Known limitations and uncovered behaviors  
--- Page 104 ---
o   Unresolved bugs, if any, with the related impact  
• Request feedback:  participants are invited to send observations before the DEMO meeting.  
Example request for validation of flows presented in the official DEMO:  
Subject:  Validation of flows presented in the DEMO meeting  
To: Product Owner, Beneficiary  
CC: Business Analyst, Tester, Testing TL, Testing Department Head, QM Division Director  
From:  Scrum Master/Testing Team Lead/Tester  
Hello,  
We wish to inform you regarding the flows that will be included in the DEMO meeting *tomorrow (or 
DEMO date), to ensure transparency and alignment before the presentation. During the demo the following 
will be addressed:  
  User Stories included in the demo (mention the USs)  
  Relevant test scenarios (previously validated with PO/BA) (mention the scenarios)  
  Known limitations and uncovered behaviors (mention what these are)  
  Unresolved bugs, if any, with the related impact (mention what these are)  
This communication aims to give you a clear picture of the demo's content and the aspects that need 
attention.  
Please send us any observations or points to discuss before the meeting, if applicable. If, following this 
email, we receive no feedback regarding the above, we will consider that we have met the acceptance 
criteria.  
Thank you!  
2. Flow validation - DEMO Preview meeting  
In the case of highly complex projects, a DEMO Preview meeting will be requested to validate deliverables 
before the official demo, especially when there are a large number of User Stories to be presented. The main 
purpose of this meeting is to establish t he main flows and scenarios that will be presented in the official 
demo.  
What the request email contains:  
• Organizational details: date, time, estimated duration, location (Teams link)  
• Participants: Product Owner, Business Analyst, Beneficiary, Tester, Testing TL, Testing Department 
Head, QM Division Director  
• Meeting objectives:  
o Presenting the user stories included in the Demo.  
o Validating the flows/cases presented in the Demo.  
o Discussing limitations and uncovered behaviors  
o Identifying and discussing unresolved bugs and their impact  
--- Page 105 ---
• Clear agenda for structuring the discussion  
• Request feedback: participants are invited to send observations before the meeting.  
Example DEMO Preview request:  
Subject:  DEMO Preview meeting invitation  
To: Product Owner, Beneficiary  
CC: Business Analyst, Tester, Testing Department Head, QM Division Director  
From:  Scrum Master/Testing Team Lead/Tester  
Date:  [Meeting date]  
Time:  [Meeting time]  
Estimated duration:  30 minutes  
Location:  [Teams Link]  
Hello,  
We invite you to the DEMO Preview meeting where we will present and validate the following aspects 
related to the current deliverables:  
  User Stories included in the demo  
  Relevant test scenarios (previously validated with PO/BA)  
  Known limitations and uncovered behaviors  
  Unresolved bugs, if any, with the related impact  
The purpose of this meeting is to establish the main flows and scenarios that will be presented in the official 
demo.  
Agenda:  
1. Presenting the user stories  
2. Detailing the validated scenarios  
3. Discussing limitations and bugs  
4. Presenting a main flow/happy path and presented scenarios.  
Please send us any observations or points to discuss before the meeting, if applicable.  
Thank you!  
Best practices for DEMO  
• Understand the specific nature of the Scrum, the roles, and the specific challenges to adapt the 
demonstration efficiently.  
• Use relevant examples, real flows and scenarios that demonstrate how the product solves their 
specific problems.  
--- Page 106 ---
• If there are epics that contain a large number of user stories, they will be grouped and presented as a 
package, where possible.  
• If test data is accessible to other users as well, notify the people (especially the Scrum team and QM 
team) who might access and corrupt them, to avoid accessing them.  
• Notify the development team not to make modifications/deployments on the demo environment at 
least 1h before the demo.  
• Ensure backup (screenshots or video) in case of live problems.  
• Note any known limitations and temporary solutions.  
• Confirm with the team what will be shown and what will be avoided.  
• Managing questions during the DEMO meeting:  
o In the case of business -related questions -> redirect to BA  
o In the case of questions related to included/excluded developments in the package -> redirect 
to PO  
o In the case of technical questions -> redirect to DEV  
o In the case of questions related to testing scenarios -> mention which scenarios were 
validated and checked with PO/BA in the DEMO Preview meeting.  
• Prepare the presentation according to the recommended Demo structure.  
Frequent mistakes during a testing session/demo  
• Trying to cover too much content: Do not try to test or present all functionalities in a single session. 
Focus on business scenarios and not on technical ones.  
• Lack of materials or test data: Prepare all necessary resources (test data, accounts, configured 
environments) before the demo, to avoid blockages. Do not rely just on tools, ensure you have a Plan 
B (e.g.: test data/backup prerequisites/print -screens/vide o-screens) in case of technical errors.  
Standard structure for DEMO presentation  
For an efficient presentation of newly developed flows, it is recommended that the DEMO meeting have the 
following structure:  
1. Agenda / DEMO Content (2 -3 min)  
Responsible: Scrum Master if participating, otherwise PO  
• Introduction / Purpose of the demo.  
• Presentation of the epic or ICD in Jira, according to the list of User Stories the Scrum Master sent in 
advance to set the Demo meeting.  
2. General business overview of the implemented project (2 -3 min)  
Responsible: PO  
• Objective of the functionality.  
• What the presented project solves from a business perspective.  
--- Page 107 ---
3. Presentation of Relevant Scenarios  
Responsible: Tester  
For each user story:  
• Title and short description / US Presentation.  
• The main flows that will be covered.  
• Scenario name + purpose.  
• Main steps (happy path flow).  
• Behavior in case of error (if applicable).  
• Validations previously made with stakeholders.  
Rule for questions:  
• Questions are accepted/encouraged after the presentation of each flow, to maintain coherence.  
• Questions that might derail the presentation are noted and discussed at the end.  
4. Conclusions and final questions (5 –10 min)  
Responsible: PO  
• Recap of presented functionalities.  
• Known limitations (if they exist).  
• What's next in the roadmap.  
• General questions or remaining unclarities.  
5. Closing  
Responsible: Scrum Master if participating, otherwise PO  
• Thanks for participating.  
• Confirmation of acceptance (if applicable).  
• Next steps (e.g., Go/No -Go, feedback, delivery in prelive).  
Definition of Done - informative  
To access the latest version of the Definition of Done document, access Definition of Done.  
Definition of Done USER STORY:   
IT tests have been run and the expected result was achieved   
Code review   
Technical specifications finalized   
--- Page 108 ---
Definition of Done USER STORY:   
Live patch prepared on the prelive environment   
All critical bugs fixed (if applicable)   
Business testing acceptance obtained   
Business acceptance criteria met   
Manuals and procedures approved for the functionality (if applicable)   
Board/Executive Comm/VP/etc approval for functionality approval (new or modified)   
Identification of all divisions impacted by the new project's functionalities   
FIMA ok needed   
Stress test   
Ok for testing (actual testing or "ok" on test scenarios)   
Demo and obtaining acceptance   
Dependencies on other goLives   
Reminder to the impacted division to finalize flows before the GO LIVE date   
Message interval stop work in applications   
Establish deployment steps order in production   
Internal informations (branch/impacted divisions/division heads)   
Client informations (collaboration with Marketing if applicable)   
Manual/Procedures/product sheet   
--- Page 109 ---
Definition of Done USER STORY:   
Impact in data structure/reporting   
Provide support for clients (for projects with client impact)   
Post-implementation - Smoke test   
Document validation responsibles   
Name  Division  
How do we hold a demo?  
This course, "How do we hold a DEMO?", is dedicated to understanding and applying the best practices for 
organizing and presenting a DEMO meeting within Agile projects. The DEMO represents the key moment 
of the sprint, where the team makes its progress vis ible, validates deliverables, and obtains the necessary 
feedback for final acceptance.  
During the course you will learn:  
• The role and importance of the DEMO in the Agile process.  
• The essential checklist for preparing a session without surprises.  
• The difference between a DEMO Preview and an official DEMO.  
• The recommended structure for a clear and efficient presentation.  
• Best practices for planning, execution, and communication.  
• Techniques for managing emotions and verbal presentation (e.g. "Traffic Light Technique").  
The goal is to help you deliver a professional, well -organized, and business -oriented DEMO that ensures 
transparency, clarity, and collaboration.  
Video Resources  
To view the full recorded course, access the link below:  
▶ Video Course – How do we hold a DEMO?  
How do we hold a DEMO.mp4  
Useful links  
• Coursera – Effective Communication : https://www.coursera.org/learn/wharton -communication -
skills  
• Udemy – Public Speaking Essentials : https://www.udemy.com/course/public -speaking -
presentations/  
--- Page 110 ---
• LinkedIn Learning – Communication Foundations : 
https://www.linkedin.com/learning/communication -foundations  
• TED Talks – Public Speaking Tips : https://www.ted.com/playlists/226/before_public_speaking  
Estimates in Agile \SCRUM (Story Points Estimation)  
How user stories are estimated in story points:  
1. A baseline reference is chosen:  
• Each team refers to the reference user stories*, which you can find here  
2. Complexity is analyzed:  
• The total effort necessary for completion is considered, including:  
o complexity  
o duration  
o uncertainty  
3. The modified Fibonacci sequence is used:  
• The values are: 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13 SP  
4. The estimation is done as a team (Planning Poker)  
• Each member of the team votes on the complexity of the discussed User Story, without the PO, BA 
and SM  
• In case there are differences in the estimation, those who awarded the highest and the lowest scores 
will justify and explain the implementation method to the team. A revote is held, until the team 
agrees on the score, and the information regarding the Sto ry points estimation is filled out in JIRA.  
• In case the team's estimation for a US exceeds 20 SP, the possibility of it being split into multiple 
USs of a smaller size is analyzed, so that the completion of any new resulting US does not exceed the 
duration of a sprint  
• Remember that the estimation must include both the testing effort and the development effort  
Example:  
 Defining 
scenarios (in 
minutes \hours)  UAT Testing (in 
minutes \hours)  PRL Testing (in 
minutes \hours)  SP x 
1.5h\1SP 
total  
US 1 story point  30m 45m 15m 1.5h 
US 2 story point  1h 1.5h 0.5h 3h 
US 3 story point  1h 2.5h 1h 4.5h 
--- Page 111 ---
 Defining 
scenarios (in 
minutes \hours)  UAT Testing (in 
minutes \hours)  PRL Testing (in 
minutes \hours)  SP x 
1.5h\1SP 
total  
US 5 story point  2h 4h 1.5h 7.5h 
US 8 story point  3h 7h 2h 12h 
US 13 story point  5h 11h 3.5h 19.5h  
US 20 story point 
(ideally must be 
split or re -
estimated into 
smaller USs)  8h 16h 6h 30h 
A US is estimated with 20 story points only with VP and division director agreement.  
IMPORTANT!!!  * These values are purely indicative, each team adjusts its estimates based on experience.  
• Story points also reflect uncertainty – an 8 SP story can take longer if problems arise.  
• Ideally, user stories should be small enough that they can be completed in one sprint.  
  
--- Page 112 ---
08. Waterfall Workflow (*)  
 
Shutterstock  
Explore  
The Waterfall (cascade) approach is chosen for a project when the requirements, context, and objectives fit a 
predictable, linear, and well -planned process.  
Situations in which the use of Waterfall is decided:  
• Requirements are clear and stable, well -defined and known from the beginning  
• The project scope is predictable, without major uncertainties  
• Detailed planning is possible from the beginning by phases/stages, deliverables and clear deadlines  
• Validation is done at the end, the final product can be tested only after the complete finalization of 
the development  
Marking in Jira the fact that a project is approached via Waterfall is done by selecting the Waterfall value in 
the Methodology field within the Epics that make up the project.  

--- Page 113 ---
How does Waterfall work?  
The process begins with the complete collection and definition of the requirements gathered under one or 
more Epics in Jira, followed by design, implementation, testing, delivery and, finally, maintenance. Each 
phase (Release) has clear objectives, detaile d through tasks that take the form of User Stories in Jira and 
produces documentation that serves as a basis for the next stage.  
Main characteristics  
• Sequential phases:  each phase (Release) begins only after the completion of the previous one.  
• Rigorous planning:  all requirements and work steps are defined before the development begins.  
• Detailed documentation:  each stage is documented for clarity and control.  
• Rigidity:  changes are difficult to manage after a phase is concluded.  
Differences between Waterfall and Agile/Scrum methodology  
Criterion  Waterfall  Agile / Scrum  
Project types  Internal processes, IT infrastructure, 
compliance projects  Digital applications, automations, 
innovations  
Planning  Sequential – fixed stages (analysis → 
development → testing → 
implementation)  Iterative – short sprints (2 weeks), 
continuous adaptation  
Requirements  Fixed, completely defined at the 
beginning  Flexible, adjusted along the way 
after feedback and regulations  
Business 
involvement  Limited – business participates at the 
beginning and at the end  Permanent – Product Owner + 
internal users involved in every 
sprint  
Delivery  Single – complete product at the end of 
the project  Incremental – gradual deliveries of 
functional modules  
Control & 
documentation  Emphasis on planning, budget and 
complete documentation  Emphasis on value, collaboration 
and minimal documentation  
00. What is Waterfall? (*)  
Waterfall Methodology  – Project management methodology characterized by linearity and the chaining of 
several successive stages (analysis, development, testing and implementation). In the case of projects 
implemented applying the Waterfall methodology, the specifications are c omplex, the scope of the project is 
strict, defined at the beginning of the project, based on which the tasks leading to the project completion 
deadline are planned and estimated.  
The project team is formed of:  
--- Page 114 ---
• Owner  - Is the person who requests the project or benefits from its implementation, representing the 
interests of the end user (if applicable)  
• Project Manager  - Is the person who must ensure a good progress of the project implementation. 
Also, facilitates the understanding and correct application of project management methodologies 
within the bank.  
• Business Analyst  – represents the person holding this function within the Process Quality 
Management division or in other divisions, who deals with the analysis of requirements registered in 
Jira and the drafting of functional specifications, which must reflect the busine ss need and provide all 
the details necessary for the technical analysis, development, and testing of the requirement  
• Tester  – represents the person holding this function within the Process Quality Management 
division, but also the person from the Business divisions, who defines the test scenarios based on the 
functional specifications and who tests the developments to ensure i mplementation according to 
business requirements.  
• Developer  – represents the person from the IT Division allocated to implement the requirement in 
the IT applications.  
• Business resources  - Is the team responsible for the correctness of the requirement implementation, 
according to the specifications and within the planned deadline (together with the rest of the project 
team).  
Projects carried out applying the Waterfall Methodology are implemented sequentially, in well -defined 
stages, planned at the beginning of the project by the Project manager and validated by the entire project 
team.  
01. What is a Task in Waterfall? (*)  
Within the Waterfall methodology for project management, a task represents a specific and delimited 
activity, a deliverable that must be achieved to advance the project towards its objectives.  
These are opened in Jira in the form of User Stories within the project's Epics.  
More concretely:  
• A task is a clearly defined unit of work, with a well -established purpose - it is represented by the 
User Story within Jira  
• In the Waterfall model, the project is divided into sequential phases / epics, and each epic is 
composed of multiple tasks (User Story).  
• The tasks (User Story) are finalized in a strict order, without passing to the next phase before the 
completion of the User Stories from the previous phase.  
Characteristics:  
• They are well planned and scheduled.  
• They have clear deadlines.  
• Responsibilities are assigned to the team.  
• The results of each task (User Story) contribute to the completion of the respective phase / epic.  
02. Testing Process in Waterfall (*)  
--- Page 115 ---
In Waterfall, the testing of User Stories begins after the code has been completely developed. Tests are not 
done in parallel with development, but only after all the requirements composing an epic are developed.  
2.1 Planning Phase  
• the tester analyzes the functional and technical specifications  
• The following are defined in the project team:  
o Testing strategy  
o Test Plan  
o Test environments and necessary data  
o Involved resources  
2.2 Writing test scenarios  
• The test scenarios are written after the completion of the design phase (in which the general structure 
of the system, the design, how the components and modules are organized and how they 
communicate with each other are defined.)  
2.3 Executing Tests  
• The product is tested after the complete finalization of the development  
2.4 Reporting defects & validating fixes  
• Bugs are registered in Jira  
• after their fixing, they are retested and validated  
03. The role of a tester in Waterfall projects (*)  
Waterfall stages and the tester's role  
Phase  Description  Tester Role  
     Requirements 
analysis  Collection and detailed definition of 
functional and non -functional 
requirements  Participates in reviews  
 
 
Contributes with testability 
requirements  
 
 
Initially estimates (high -level) the 
testing effort  
           System design  Application architecture, data models, 
UI/UX structure  Participates in reviews  
--- Page 116 ---
Phase  Description  Tester Role  
 
 
Analyzes design documents for 
testing planning and creates the first 
tests 
 
 
Details/refines the testing effort 
estimation  
                        
Implementation  The dev team writes the code based on 
specifications  Writes the test scenarios  
      Testing  The testing team executes the tests on 
the finalized build  Executes functional, regression, UI, 
integration, system testing etc.  
        Launch  The application is delivered to 
production (LIVE)  Validates the final version through a 
smoke testing  
  Maintenance  Post-launch fixes and improvements  Tests incidents, regressions, 
hotfixes, change requests  
01. Defining test scenarios in Waterfall (*)  
In Waterfall, test scenarios are defined after the analysis and design documentation has been approved, 
meaning:  
• after the delivery of the Business Requirements Document (BRD),  
• and the Functional Specification Document (FSD) / Technical Design Document (TDD).  
Thus, testers work on fixed and approved requirements, without the risk of them changing during testing.  
Test scenarios are built based on:  
• functional and non -functional requirements (from the BRD and FSD),  
• flow diagrams, screen mock -ups, technical design documents,  
• business rules and use cases.  
Defining the scenarios is done according to the general working mode, described here.  
02. Executing Test Scenarios in Waterfall (*)  
In Waterfall projects, test execution takes place after the complete finalization of the development phase.  
--- Page 117 ---
The execution of the test scenarios is done according to the general working mode, described here.  
03. Bug Reporting in Waterfall (*)  
(This section was left blank in the source text)  
04. Waterfall Estimates - Projects \ICDs (*)  
Estimations in Waterfall projects are done in two stages:  
1. In the requirements analysis stage, the tester participates in reviews, requests clarifications on the 
requirements and requests a check list with main points to track in testing the requirements, then 
makes an initial (high -level) estimation of their test ing, in hours/days.  
Elements taken into account in the estimation:  
• testing experience on similar requirements  
• novelty of the development/application  
• complexity of the requirements  
• project team feedback  
2. During the design stage, based on the requirements documented in the specifications.  
Here they will use the Testing Estimation Form .xlsx, which helps in providing more detailed and accurate 
testing effort estimations (for filling it out, it is indicated to be saved locally and then renamed for the 
purpose of the estimation)  
• Title - Testing Estimates (Project Name, ICD or project)  
For situations when the provided estimates for the Testing effort are contested by other roles, be they 
business or technical, the purpose of this form (and filling it out) is to support the estimated testing effort 
with details.  
Usage instructions:  
Estimates with values in hours will be entered only in columns B,C,D.  
The activities (rows) marked with yellow are mandatory, the estimation is not considered complete without 
values for these activities.  
The activities that are not marked with yellow can be considered optional but it is recommended that values 
be passed for them if it is known they will take place (based on past experience or information from project 
responsibles).  
Whole values or half hours can be used; Examples 1 or 0.5.  
An attempt will be made as much as possible to pass values as exact as possible for each estimate without 
exaggerating plus or minus.  
• Optimistic Estimate (column B)  - The best scenario, in which everything goes well; the shortest 
time for the respective activity; there is no impediment, no delay to be able to start and finish the 
activity  
• Pessimistic Estimate (column D)  - The worst scenario, in which the most problems appear; the 
longest time for the respective activity; many impediments, many delays to be able to start and finish 
--- Page 118 ---
the activity; here probabilities \past experience can be taken into account. The values for this estimate 
must always be higher than those for the Optimistic estimate.  
• Most likely estimate (Column C)  - The most realistic estimate based on experience; The values for 
this estimate must always be higher than those for the Optimistic estimate and lower than the 
Pessimistic estimate.  
• Realized time (column F)  - upon finalizing testing and completing all Testing activities (in all 
environments) the real time realized for activities will be passed.  
• Estimates observations:  reasons \extra information will be added that can support the estimate for 
the activity.  
The Final Estimate that will be communicated is the value from cell E22.  
09. Mobile Testing Workflow ( -) 
You can view the installation mode depending on the Scrum below:  
Instalare MBK  
        Libra Wallet – Installation and testing builds guide  
List of projects involving mobile testing:  
• Scrum Mobile Banking (MBK)  
• Scrum Wallet  
For any new build \release we must ensure that the mobile testing covers all important variants. The testing 
must be performed at least on the devices and OSs below:  
• iOS (any version)  
• Android (any version)  
• Huawei (any version)  
For major builds \releases the variants below must be additionally included: In progress  
• iOS beta How to Opt -in to Apple Developer Beta Software on iPhone and iPad - MacRumors  
• Android beta https://www.google.com/android/beta#devices  
Below is an orientation guide for the tests that can be covered for Mobile Testing on the Libra applications  
Functional testing  
• Authentication and authorization:  
o Tests login mechanisms (user/password, multi -factor authentication (MFA), biometric 
authentication – fingerprint, Face ID).  
o Verifies the functionality of the password reset and account activation option.  
• Financial transactions:  
o Verifies the execution of payments between accounts (internal and external).  
o Tests transfers, bill payments, recurring payments and sending money.  
--- Page 119 ---
o Ensures that confirmation messages are correctly sent after each transaction.  
• Tests the display of the current balance, transaction history and account statements.  
• Tests functionalities such as card blocking/unblocking, requesting a new card, changing the PIN.  
• Verifies the functioning of push alerts for banking notifications (payments, transfers, account limits).  
• Tests the user profile modification functions, security options and language preferences.  
• Verifies if the interface elements are displayed correctly and function according to expectations 
(buttons, menus, forms).  
• Ensures that navigating in the application is fluid and without errors.  
• Verifies if all main functions of the application work correctly (e.g. registration, authentication, 
transactions).  
• If the application interacts with the hardware (camera, GPS, accelerometer), verify these 
functionalities.  
Security testing  
• Secure authentication:  
o Verifies if passwords are protected, if the application imposes a secure password policy and if 
multi -factor authentication (MFA) is implemented.  
o Tests lockout mechanisms after multiple failed authentication attempts.  
• Data protection:  
o Verifies if sensitive data is encrypted both in transit and at rest.  
o Ensures that sensitive data is not kept on the device (e.g. information about bank accounts or 
cards).  
o Verifies if the application allows printscreens for sensitive banking data.  
• Common vulnerabilities:  
o Ensures the application uses secure sessions and correctly expires the inactive session.  
Usability and accessibility testing  
• Ensures that all touch gestures (swipe, zoom, long press, etc.) work correctly and offer adequate 
feedback to the users.  
• Tests for the consistency of design elements, texts, buttons and the overall experience on diverse 
devices and OS versions.  
Permissions and notifications management  
• Ensures that the application correctly requests, manages and revokes permissions (e.g. camera, 
location, microphone). Verifies if the application works correctly if permissions are refused.  
• Tests push notifications, local notifications and background ones under different conditions (locked 
screen, application in background, etc.).  
01. Defining Mobile Testing Test Scenarios ( -) 
--- Page 120 ---
Mobile test scenarios for an internet banking application represent structured sets of steps and conditions 
that verify the functionality, security, performance and user experience on mobile devices (IOS, Android and 
Huawei). Scenarios for testing on Andro id and IOS devices will be created for all types of testing (current 
User Story testing; smoke testing; regression testing), and will be used in both test environments (UAT and 
PRL). Scenarios for testing on Huawei devices will be created only once, as thi s is limited to validating 
smoke tests in the PRL environment. These ensure that the mobile banking application works correctly in 
diverse real situations, including authentication, transactions, navigation, notifications and account 
management, on multipl e types and versions of devices and operating systems.  
The scenarios are made according to the general working mode 01. How to generate test scenarios with AI - 
UiPath Test Manager (*)  
The LX name must also contain the mobile device, according to the example in the image:  
The process of defining scenarios for testing on mobile devices includes the following stages:  
• Creating the „Defining scenarios” sub -task:  
The sub -task is automatically created for each new User Story. If it is missing, it is manually added and is 
used for logging time and attaching the LXs corresponding to the scenarios.  
• Creating the LXs in the Xray Library:  
The tester identifies the mobile flows that must be tested (positive, negative, regression, UI/UX, device/OS 
compatibility etc.) and creates the scenarios respecting the structure: Action, Data, Expected Result.  
Within the same test scenario, the tester will obligatorily verify both the Romanian language page of the 
application, as well as the corresponding English language page. The purpose is not to verify the 
functionality (behavior which should be the same in both pages/languages), but the language displayed on 
the corresponding pages and identifying possible insertions of Romanian/English in inappropriate pages. In 
case there are USs/CRs that specifically contain text additions/modifications, these texts will be specified in 
the expected results of the test steps (RO variant + EN variant).  
The LXs are saved in the corresponding subfolder and a label with the User Story number is added.  
• Cloning the LXs:  The LX is created a single time for one type of OS then it is cloned and the name 
is modified with the tested OS (Android, IOS). Thus, there will be a test scenario for each of the two 
devices, Android and IOS.  
How cloning LXs is performed in Xray - Jira: 
1. Access the test (LX) you want to clone;  
2. Press the “More” button;  
3. Select “Clone” from the menu;  
4. Press “Clone” to generate the new LX;  
5. After creation, you can edit the new LX to make the necessary adjustments (e.g.: update test 
steps, modify Summary - where we add the used OS type).  
• Adding LXs on the „Defining scenarios” sub -task:  
After creation, the LXs are added in the Description field for visibility and validation by the PO/Application 
Owner.  
--- Page 121 ---
• Logging time:  
The tester daily logs the time allocated for writing and validating the scenarios in the „Defining scenarios” 
sub-task. 
• Validating scenarios:  
The scenarios are reviewed together with the PO/Application Owner. After validation, the sub -task is 
marked as DONE.  
• Updating and reusing tests:  
If the mobile flow already exists in the library, Call Test is used to avoid duplication. If it does not exist, it is 
documented and added for later reuse.  
02. Executing Mobile Testing Scenarios ( -) 
The execution of mobile testing for a Mobile Banking/Wallet application consists in actually running the test 
scenarios on real devices, to validate the application's behavior under varied usage conditions. This process 
implies verifying essential function alities like authentication, performing transactions, receiving 
notifications or navigating between sections, ensuring compatibility with different operating system versions 
(iOS, Android, Huawei). Testing is done manually, involving validations of the gra phical interface, 
performance, security and user experience. Real scenarios such as internet connection loss, use of biometrics 
or accessing the application in the background are also simulated, to guarantee the application's stability and 
reliability in t he mobile environment.  
For more details see here 02. Executing Test Scenarios Workflow (*)  
The execution process of test scenarios on mobile devices includes the following stages according to the 
working mode here: 02. Executing Test Scenarios Workflow (*)  
1. Creating Sub Test Execution  
For each User Story, a Sub Test Execution is created (automatically or manually). In it, the time necessary 
for testing on different devices and OS versions is estimated.  
2. Adding the LXs  
The scenarios (LXs) relevant for mobile testing, selected by number, name or JQL filter, are added into the 
Sub Test Execution. Only the tests that are to be run in that phase are included.  
3. Executing the scenarios  
Installing the Mobile application and testing Builds can be performed following the steps from: Instalare 
MBK and         Libra Wallet – Installation and testing builds guide  
Testing on mobile is performed exclusively on physical phones with different operating systems (iOS, 
Android and Huawei). Before execution, the application is installed and the test environment specific to 
each device is configured. To display and control the mobile screen on the PC, ApowerMirror is used.  
• On the UAT Testing, PRL Testing and Regression Testing Sub test Execution, testing is performed 
only on IOS and Android.  
• On the Smoke Testing Sub test execution, testing is performed on all operating systems: IOS, 
Android and Huawei.  
--- Page 122 ---
The tester runs the steps on real mobile devices accessing the Libra Mobile Banking or Wallet application 
and referencing the page, marking the result of each step (Pass, Fail, Blocked, Aborted). In case of Fail, bugs 
are reported and screenshots or record ings are attached.  
4. Logging time  
The tester daily logs the estimated time and the actually consumed time in the Sub Test Execution for mobile 
testing activities.  
It is no longer necessary to attach evidence for any type of testing: LX execution, UAT or Prelive testing, 
SCRUM or Waterfall testing, including in bug fixes retesting; evidence in bug reporting remains.  
03. Mobile Testing Bugs Reporting ( -) 
Reporting bugs in mobile testing is an essential step in the quality assurance process of mobile applications. 
A correctly and completely reported bug helps the development team quickly understand the problem and 
fix it efficiently.  
• In case of identifying Bugs during scenario execution on any type of testing, a BUG type Issue is 
opened following the steps here.  
• Attaching evidence on the Bug: Print screens or Video detailing the encountered problem → is 
performed with ApowerMirror.  
• Before opening the Bug, the encountered problem is obligatorily tested on all OS types (IOS, 
Android; and Huawei → in the case of bugs appearing on smoke tests).  
• To complete the bug details, it is necessary to specify the operating system (OS) and mention if the 
problem reproduces on a single device or on multiple in the "Bug detailing" field  
• After fixing the Bugs the tester has the obligation to retest them, on all OS types according to the 
workflow defined in 04. Retesting a bug fix (*)  
• Logging the time for retesting Bugs is performed according to 10. Logging time in Jira (*).  
Additionally, details about the build tested on the mobile applications and the OS on which it was identified 
are added in the bug.  
ApowerMirror  
ApowerMirror is a program used for mirroring (projecting) the screen of a mobile device onto a PC. Within 
our team, the application is used exclusively for testing activities on mobile devices, especially for:  
• holding Demo meetings, where the functionalities of the tested applications and their behavior on 
different mobile devices are presented.  
• screenshots or recording bugs identified during testing sessions on phones.  
ApowerMirror represents a convenient solution for displaying, capturing and recording the phone screen 
directly on the computer, offering the possibility to quickly report problems and demonstrate test scenarios 
in real -time.  
1. Installing ApowerMirror  Installing the ApowerMirror application can be done only by opening a ticket 
in RT to the IT support team, who handles installing the application on the requested computer.  
2. Connecting the phone to the PC  
There are two main connection methods:  
--- Page 123 ---
A. Via USB cable - Android  1. Download ApowerMirror on the phone as well (Google Play). Start the 
application on both.  
2. On the phone, activate USB Debugging from (Settings → About phone → tap 7 times on Build number 
→ Settings → Developer options → USB debugging ON).  
3. Connect the phone to the laptop via USB cable. A prompt appears on the phone: Allow USB debugging? 
→ select Allow.  
4. ApowerMirror will automatically detect the device and start displaying the screen on the PC, following 
the steps from the print screens.  
B. Via Wi -Fi (without cable) - IOS, Android and Huawei  
1. Ensure the phone and PC are connected to the same Wi -Fi network.  
2. Open the ApowerMirror application on both devices.  
3. On the phone, press "Mirror" and select the Apowersoft name and PC name.  
C. How we take screenshots and video from ApowerMirror  
After the phones have been connected to the laptop, through any of the variants above: A and B, the screen is 
displayed on the Pc from where we can take screenshots or video.  
For screenshots we use the first image and to take a video the second image.  
Smartwatch testing ( -) 
The purpose of smartwatch testing for a mobile application that cannot be installed on the smartwatch is to 
verify the correctness and stability of the interaction and synchronization between the phone and watch, 
ensuring that notifications and supported f unctionalities are displayed and work correctly on the smartwatch, 
without direct installation, offering a fluid, safe and accessible experience to the user.  
Orientation guide \Checklist  
Tested aspect  Description  Concrete example / 
Testing steps  Expected result  
Connectivity 
between devices  Bluetooth pairing 
and connection 
stability test  Pair phone and 
smartwatch; verify 
reconnection after 
interruptions  Connection is established 
quickly and is stable  
Data 
synchronization  Correct 
transmission of 
notifications and 
data Send notifications and 
verify synchronization on 
smartwatch  Notifications appear 
correctly and on time on 
the watch  
Notifications 
display  Verifying clear and 
complete 
notification display  Send messages with 
emojis, links and small 
images; verify display  Notifications are clear 
and complete on the 
smartwatch screen  
--- Page 124 ---
Tested aspect  Description  Concrete example / 
Testing steps  Expected result  
Interaction with 
notifications  Testing notification 
response and 
management  Reply quickly, delete 
notifications and mark as 
read on smartwatch  Replies and modifications 
synchronize correctly  
Behavior upon 
connection loss  Managing 
situations when 
connection is 
interrupted  Disable Bluetooth and 
observe app reaction  The app detects 
connection loss and 
manages it  
Permissions and 
security  Verifying 
notification and 
access permissions  Revoke permissions and 
test impact on 
notifications  The app respects 
permissions and 
notifications don't appear 
if permissions are missing  
User feedback  Confirming haptic, 
visual and auditory 
feedback  Interact with 
notifications on 
smartwatch and observe 
feedback  Feedback is clear, 
coherent and immediate  
Smartwatch 
compatibility  Testing on different 
smartwatch models 
and versions  Test the app on Apple 
Watch, Samsung Galaxy 
Watch etc.  Functionalities run 
correctly on all tested 
models  
Real usage 
scenarios  Testing 
notifications under 
usual conditions  Receive notifications 
with phone in pocket and 
answer on the move  The app works correctly 
in all real situations  
Multiple 
notifications 
management  Simultaneous 
testing of multiple 
notifications  Send multiple 
notifications and verify 
order, grouping and their 
management  Notifications are 
displayed, grouped and 
managed correctly  
UI\UX Testing for Mobile ( -) 
Laura looks here  
UI/UX Testing (User Interface / User Experience Testing) is the process of verifying how an application 
looks and feels for users, to ensure it is intuitive, accessible and easy to use.  
For the scrums: Scrum IBK, MBK, WALLET and DIGITAL, separate UI/UX folders were created in Xray.  
Testing is done in both UAT and PRL test environments - UI/UX testing is done on each US individually.  
--- Page 125 ---
to move into CREATING LX - The LX will be named UI/UX Testing and the name of the US and the 
UI/UX label  
UI Testing (User Interface Testing)  
Focuses on the visual aspect and graphical elements of the application:  
• Verifies if UI elements (buttons, fields, menus, icons etc.) are:  
o Correctly displayed on all devices  
o Arranged and aligned properly  
o Functional (e.g., when you press a button, the expected action happens)  
• Responsive design behavior is tested (UI behavior at various screen sizes)  
• Ensures visual coherence (fonts, colors, consistent icons)  
UX Testing (User Experience Testing)  
Refers to the overall user experience when using the application:  
• Is the app easy to navigate?  
• Are actions intuitive and well explained?  
• Does the user receive clear feedback when taking an action (e.g. transaction confirmation)?  
• Is the app fast and crash -free?  
• Does it work correctly for all users, including those with disabilities? (accessibility)  
Concrete examples in UI/UX testing  
1. Design consistency across different sizes and resolutions  
• Verify if the UI adapts correctly on small, medium and large screens (e.g.: compact phones vs. 
phablets vs. tablets).  
• UI elements must not overlap, disappear or be too small/large.  
• Test on devices with different densities (DPI).  
2. Adaptability to different orientations  
• The UI must rearrange correctly in portrait and landscape modes.  
• No element should disappear or be hard to access when the screen rotates.  
• Flows must remain intuitive regardless of orientation.  
3. Specific and natural gestures  
• Verify all common gestures (tap, swipe, pinch, long press etc.) respond correctly.  
• Test native platform gestures (e.g.: swipe back on iOS, back button on Android).  
• Custom application gestures should be intuitive and conflict -free. 
4. UI Performance under real conditions  
• Response times to touch, scroll, animations without lag.  
--- Page 126 ---
• The application should function fluently even on older devices or with limited resources.  
• Immediate visual/haptic feedback to actions.  
5. Application state management  
• Test how the application behaves when moved to the background and then brought back to the 
foreground.  
• Verify if data, current form or transactions in progress are preserved.  
6. Testing on varied and offline networks  
• The application must communicate clearly when it has no connection and offer offline functionalities 
where applicable.  
• Verify responses to network interruptions, reconnections etc.  
7. Clear feedback and confirmations  
• Animations on press, changing button colors or popup messages for action confirmation.  
• Haptic (vibration) or audio feedback where relevant.  
8. Ergonomics and ease of use with one hand  
• Verify if important elements are accessible with the thumb, especially on phones with large screens.  
• Buttons too small or positioned in hard -to-reach areas affect UX.  
9. Mobile accessibility testing  
• Compatibility with screen readers (e.g.: TalkBack on Android, V oiceOver on iOS).  
• Color contrast and font size should be good even in special modes (night mode, high contrast mode).  
• Easy navigation and use without touchscreen (e.g.: voice commands).  
10. Permissions and notifications management  
• Clear messages when the application requests permissions (e.g.: location, microphone).  
• Application behavior if permissions are refused.  
• Correct interaction with push notifications and navigation from them.  
11. Testing behavior in special conditions  
• Battery saving mode (low power mode) should not degrade UX.  
• Multitasking and split screen on Android should maintain functionality and readability.  
• Testing in real conditions: bright light (outside), ambient noise, use while moving.  
12. Simplicity and clarity of mobile flows  
• Minimize the number of steps for usual actions (e.g.: payment, money transfer).  
• Simple form, with live validations and useful messages.  
• Avoiding overloading the user with useless elements on the screen.  
UI\UX Mobile Testing Orientation Guide \Checklist ( -) 
--- Page 127 ---
This UI/UX checklist helps verify the visual and experience elements within a mobile application. The 
purpose of this checklist is to standardize the testing process, increase efficiency, better document UI \UX 
tests and cover this type of testing as well a s possible. The final goal is to offer users an intuitive, accessible 
and pleasant experience, avoiding errors and frustrations in use.  
This checklist must be treated as an orientation guide, not all actions can be tested in every application area.  
Tested aspect  Description  Concrete example / 
Testing steps  Expected result  
Tap (Simple 
touch)  Fast pressing of an 
element  Quickly press a button 
or link in the app  The element is 
selected/activated without 
delays  
Double Tap  Fast pressing twice 
consecutively  Double tap on an image 
for zoom  The image enlarges/zoom 
activates correctly  
Long Press  Holding pressed for a 
longer time  Hold an element 
pressed to show context 
menu  The contextual menu 
appears and works 
correctly  
Swipe  Fast finger movement 
in one direction  Swipe from right to left 
to navigate between 
screens  Navigation is fluid, 
without blockages  
Pinch to Zoom  Bringing together or 
spreading two fingers  Zoom in/out on a map 
or image  Zooming is fluid, without 
lag or errors  
Spread  Movement with two 
fingers from center to 
exterior  Spread two fingers for 
quick zoom in  Content enlarges instantly  
Rotate Gesture  Rotating an object with 
two fingers  Rotate an image using 
two fingers  The image rotates 
accordingly, without 
interruptions  
Drag and Drop  Holding and moving an 
element  Hold and move a file 
into a folder  The element moves 
correctly and appears in 
the new location  
Flick  Fast and short swipe  Flick quickly through a 
list of transactions  The list scrolls quickly 
and fluidly  
--- Page 128 ---
Tested aspect  Description  Concrete example / 
Testing steps  Expected result  
Pull to Refresh  Swiping down to 
update content  Swipe down on the 
notifications list  The list refreshes and 
displays new content  
Edge Swipe  Swiping from screen 
edge for side menu  Swipe from the left 
edge to open the 
hamburger menu  The menu appears 
quickly and is functional  
Two-Finger 
Scroll  Scrolling content with 
two fingers  Use two fingers to 
scroll enlarged content  Scrolling is smooth and 
without errors  
Shake Gesture  Shaking the device for 
special action  Shake the phone to 
activate the "Undo" 
function  The Undo action is 
triggered correctly  
Back Gesture 
(Swipe Back)  Swiping left -to-right for 
previous screen  Swipe from left to right 
to return to previous 
screen  Navigating back is fast 
and error -free 
Force Touch / 
3D Touch  Pressing with force on 
screen (compatible 
devices)  Press hard on an icon 
for quick menu  The quick menu appears 
and works correctly  
Multitouch 
Gestures  Simultaneous use of 
multiple gestures  Apply pinch + rotate 
simultaneously on an 
image  Gestures are recognized 
and combined correctly  
Double Finger 
Tap Double tap with two 
fingers  Double tap with two 
fingers to reset zoom  Zoom resets instantly  
Two-Finger 
Rotate  Rotating an element 
with two fingers 
simultaneously  Rotate an object using 
two fingers 
simultaneously  Rotation is fluid and 
precise  
Hover Gesture 
(with stylus)  Suspending the stylus 
above the screen  Hold stylus suspended 
to display context menu  Contextual menu appears 
promptly  
--- Page 129 ---
Tested aspect  Description  Concrete example / 
Testing steps  Expected result  
Two-Finger Tap  Touch with two fingers 
simultaneously  Touch with two fingers 
simultaneously for a 
special function  The function 
activates/deactivates 
correctly  
Triple Tap  Three fast consecutive 
touches  Perform triple tap for 
accessibility zoom  Accessibility zoom 
activates without delay  
Swipe and Hold  Swipe followed by 
prolonged press  Swipe and hold to 
select multiple 
elements  Multiple selection 
activates and extra 
options appear  
Pinch and 
Rotate 
Simultaneous  Combining zoom and 
rotation in one gesture  Apply pinch and rotate 
simultaneously on an 
image  Gestures are applied 
correctly and 
simultaneously  
Press and Slide  Immediate press and 
drag Hold pressed on the 
slider and drag to adjust  The slider responds 
precisely to adjustment  
Double Tap and 
Hold  Double tap followed by 
holding  Double tap and hold for 
quick access to options  Quick menu opens 
without errors  
Scroll  Vertical/horizontal 
movement with one 
finger  Scroll a long list of 
transactions  Scrolling is smooth, 
without blockages  
Swipe with 
Velocity  Fast swipe with high 
speed for rapid scroll  Swipe quickly to 
navigate through long 
pages  Navigation is fast and 
fluid  
Back button 
Android  Press back button to 
return to previous 
screen  Press hardware or 
software back button  Navigating back is 
correct and predictable  
Home button / 
Gesture  Fast return to main 
screen  Press Home button or 
use Home gestures  Main screen appears 
without errors  
--- Page 130 ---
Tested aspect  Description  Concrete example / 
Testing steps  Expected result  
Screen rotation  Rotating phone between 
portrait and landscape  Rotate the phone and 
check UI  UI adapts correctly, 
without overlapping 
elements  
Low battery 
mode  Testing in battery 
saving mode  Activate saving mode 
and use the app  App works normally with 
maintained performance  
Offline mode  Deactivate connection 
and test functionalities  Turn off connection 
and check available 
messages and functions  App offers clear 
messages and works 
partially  
Resume from 
background  Returning to app after 
minimizing  Minimize and return to 
the app  App keeps its state 
without resetting  
Biometric 
authentication  Using fingerprint / 
facial recognition for 
login  Authenticate with 
fingerprint or face  Fast and secure login  
Push 
notification 
interaction  Opening notification 
and checking 
navigation  Tap on a received 
notification  App correctly opens the 
relevant screen  
Permission 
handling  Refusing permissions 
and checking UX 
messages  Revoke location 
permission and use the 
app App displays clear 
messages and respects the 
decision  
Vibration and 
sound feedback  Testing haptic and 
audio feedback on 
actions  Perform actions and 
check 
vibrations/sounds  Feedback is clear and 
synchronized  
Gesture 
conflicts  Testing if gestures do 
not interfere  Apply different 
gestures simultaneously 
or successively  Gestures don't block and 
are recognized correctly  
Multitasking  Maintaining data when 
app is in background  Switch app and come 
back  Data and state are kept  
--- Page 131 ---
Tested aspect  Description  Concrete example / 
Testing steps  Expected result  
Accessibility 
gestures  Testing special gestures 
for users with 
disabilities  Use accessibility 
gestures and check 
functionality  Gestures are recognized 
and work correctly  
Multi -window 
mode  Testing in split screen 
on Android  Use split screen with 
the application  App works correctly in 
multi -window mode  
Custom 
gestures  Testing application 
specific gestures  Use unique gestures 
defined in the app  Gestures are recognized 
and execute 
corresponding actions  
Session timeout  Testing session 
expiration after 
inactivity  Leave app inactive and 
check session 
expiration  App logs out or shows 
timeout message  
Visual feedback 
for actions  Checking animations 
and visual changes on 
interactions  Press buttons and 
observe visual effects  Visual feedback is clear 
and instantaneous  
Form simplicity  Testing ease of filling 
out a form  Fill out payment form 
with validations and 
messages  Form is easy to fill, with 
clear messages  
Design 
consistency  Checking consistency 
of style, colors, fonts 
between screens  Navigate between 
different screens  Design is coherent and 
professional  
Error messages 
and instructions  Clarity and usefulness 
of messages in case of 
error  Enter incorrect data and 
check messages  Messages are clear, 
useful and help the user  
Loading 
performance  Checking loading times 
and feedback  Open screens and 
observe loading time 
and animations  Loading is fast, with clear 
feedback for the user  
 
  
--- Page 132 ---
10. Logging time in Jira (*)  
Logging time in Jira is mandatory. Depending on the activities carried out in a day, the related time is logged 
on the dedicated tasks/subtasks.  
To log the time spent on defining scenarios, UAT/PRL/Smoke PRL/Regression PRL testing, bug retesting, 
scrum ceremonies, access the option More → Log Work:  
In the opened pop -up, only the 2 fields will be filled in:  
-Time Spent: the estimate of the time you spent writing the test scenarios  
-Date Started: date and time  (The time is less important. Time logging can be done at any time of the day. It 
is recommended that by the end of the day, the time spent on the testing activity of that day be logged)  
Logging in Jira tasks outside the team \project  
In this task, the time dedicated by testers for courses, materials, and workshops specific to the testing 
activity will be logged. - [ATQ -40] Participating in workshops, courses, materials specific to the testing 
department - Jira 
In this task, the time dedicated by testers for 1:1 meetings with the superior will be logged. - [ATQ -41] 1:1 
with superior - Jira 
In this task, the time dedicated by testers for documenting the activity in Confluence, as well as for internal 
presentations (e.g., internal Scrum teams Demo) will be logged. - [ATQ -42] Confluence documentation and 
internal presentations - Jira 
In this task, the time dedicated by testers for internally organized meetings (e.g., TestersQM meeting) will be 
logged. - [ATQ -43] Testing department calls - Jira 
In this task, the time dedicated by testers for buddy activities or on support activities for colleagues in the 
testing team will be logged. - [ATQ -44] Buddy/Testing support - Jira 
In this task, the time dedicated by testers for defining Smoke scenarios will be logged. - [ATQ -39] Defining 
Smoke test scenarios - Jira 
In this task, the time dedicated by testers for defining Regression scenarios will be logged - ATQ -47 - Jira 
project doesn't exist or you don't have permission to view it.  
In this task, the time when the test environments are unavailable will be logged: [ATQ -36] Test 
Environments Unavailable - Jira 
In this task, the time dedicated by testers during the Onboarding period will be logged. - [STAM -75] Time 
logging - Onboarding - Jira 
In this task, the time dedicated by testers for administrative activities will be logged. - [ATQ -101] 
Administrative activities - QM Testing - Jira 
11. Scrum teams back -up system workflow (*)  
• The purpose and benefits of the back -up system between scrum teams:  
We want to encourage active involvement in providing support to other teams when the testing volume is 
high. This collaboration brings benefits in several respects:  
→ Increased productivity: involvement in testing other projects contributes to improving the results in the 
productivity report  
--- Page 133 ---
→ Reducing dead times – during less crowded periods, involvement in other teams ensures optimal loading.  
→ Professional development – you will have the opportunity to explore new applications, flows, and 
technologies, to see different approaches in other scrum teams.  
→ Consolidating collaboration between teams – the exchange of experience will help you collaborate better 
with each other and have common knowledge.  
• The moment of holding the training:  
→ during Smoke tests (for general familiarization)  
→ during partial regression tests (for deepening the relevant functionalities)  
• Identifying training pairs:  
Each primary team will hold training for the allocated secondary teams, according to 01. Allocations 
primary team vs secondary team - QA - Confluence.  
There will be 2 -3 scrum teams that will be back -up for the primary team.  
• Responsibilities:  
Primary team:  
→ 1 representative will be designated at the team level to hold the training  
→ The designated trainer will announce in advance the teams for which they will hold the training, so they 
can free their schedule.  
→ Schedules the meeting in the calendar on Teams, with CC to the involved TLs.  
→ Holds the training meeting, records the training, and uploads it in the Confluence section – Testing Scrum 
Teams.  
→ Provides subsequent testing support.  
Secondary team:  
→ Actively participates in the training sessions  
→ Asks questions related to the presented flows, so as to ensure they understand the specifics of the scrum.  
• Training structure:  
→ The training will last approximately 3h, time in which the tester will execute the Smoke tests and a series 
of regression tests (the most important ones)  
→ A general presentation of the application and the tested flows will be made.  
→ Smoke Testing and Partial regression testing – demonstration and explanations for each validation  
→ Details about execution conditions, validation criteria, and other useful information are provided.  
→ The trainer will have to ensure that after the held training they will provide the support teams with the 
necessary materials: access links to applications, test environments and data, useful users, Confluence 
documentation etc.  
• Conducting the activity of the back -up team  
--- Page 134 ---
Testers who offer support will be able to test in several situations, depending on their experience and 
previous collaboration with the secondary scrum:  
→ If the tester has experience in the secondary scrum: the complete testing of a User Story will be done: the 
stages of defining scenarios, UAT and PRL testing (will help increase the results in the productivity report 
for all KPI indicators);  
→ If the tester has little experience collaborating with the secondary scrum: the execution of all tests will 
take place after the moment the AI -generated test scenarios are validated by the permanently allocated tester 
in the team;  
→ If the tester has no experience at all and takes over requirements from the secondary scrum for the first 
time: they will run the smoke and partial regression tests.  
• Workflow for taking over activity in the secondary scrum  
When a Tester does not have enough activity in the scrum team they are allocated to, before taking over a 
testing task in the secondary team, they will open a Task in Jira (in the scrum team's project) with the 
category Available for tasks.  
Upon opening a task with the category “Available for tasks”, the following notifications are automatically 
sent:  
• Email to the Project Lead of the SCRUM team's project, the PM of the SCRUM team, and the 
Reporter  
• Email to the TLTesting email group  
Automatically sent email:  
• Subject: Resource available for task allocation  
• Body: A resource from the team is available for task allocation [task link]  
[First Name Last Name Reporter] - [Role]  
After completing the task in the secondary team, the Tester will close the task setting the Done status.  
→ For situations where the support offered is during the 3 -month project period that qualifies for bonuses, 
the Testers providing support will be included in the bonus system. Their allocation will be made in CSI 
based on the previously opened Task announc ing the Availability to test in another scrum team.  
01. Allocations primary team vs secondary team  
The allocations in the table below are made at the Scrum team level.  
In case the Testers have offered support in the past in other teams or due to the activity within the bank, they 
have interacted with another Scrum before, they can offer support in other teams compared to those 
mentioned in the "Team holding the training"  column.  
Team holding the training  Teams that will participate in the training  
Scrum Flow  Scrum Flow Automatizari  
--- Page 135 ---
Team holding the training  Teams that will participate in the training  
 
 
Administrare Credite  
Scrum Bug -uri si Incidente  Scrum Flow  
 
 
Scrum_Administrarea Riscurilor  
Scrum Flow Automatizari  Scrum Flow  
 
 
Scrum_Analiza Credite  
SCRUM_Operatiuni  Scrum_Creatio Deschidere Client  
 
 
Scrum_CP  
Scrum_Creatio Deschidere Client  SCRUM_Digital  
 
 
SCRUM Alte Divizii  
Scrum_Decontari  Scrum_CP  
 
 
SCRUM_Digital HUB  
Scrum_Analiza Credite  Scrum Flow  
 
 
Scrum Flow Automatizari  
--- Page 136 ---
Team holding the training  Teams that will participate in the training  
SCRUM_IBK  SCRUM_MBK  
 
 
SCRUM_LibraPay  
SCRUM_MBK  SCRUM_IBK  
 
 
Scrum_Libra Wallet  
SCRUM_Digital  Scrum_Creatio Deschidere Client  
 
 
SCRUM_Digital HUB  
Scrum_CP  SCRUM Alte Divizii  
 
 
Scrum_Decontari  
SCRUM_LibraPay  SCRUM_Carduri  
 
 
SCRUM_Digital  
SCRUM_Digital HUB  SCRUM_LibraPay  
 
 
Scrum_Decontari  
SCRUM_Administrare Credite  Scrum Flow  
 
 
Scrum_Analiza Credite  
--- Page 137 ---
Team holding the training  Teams that will participate in the training  
SCRUM_Carduri  SCRUM_IBK  
 
 
Scrum_Libra Wallet  
SCRUM_Conformitate  Scrum_Administrarea Riscurilor  
Scrum_Libra Wallet  SCRUM_Carduri  
 
 
SCRUM_MBK  
Scrum_Administrarea Riscurilor  SCRUM_Administrare Credite  
 
 
SCRUM_Conformitate  
12. Integrated Testing Workflow  
Integrated testing in the UAT environment takes place after the completion of UAT testing within each 
involved cross team. Its purpose is testing end -to-end scenarios. In this stage, the integrated scenarios 
associated with the main flows are run, to confi rm that all involved components work coherently and that the 
transitions between applications are stable.  
Integrated testing is essential to ensure that the different software components are integrated without 
problems and work together without errors or defects. It plays a significant role in delivering high -quality 
software that respects the client's expecta tions and specifications.  
Planning  
• UAT Integrated Testing:  
o Can begin only after all teams have completed the UAT testing on the specifications to be 
integratedly tested.  
o Before the DEMO, to be able to present the integrated flow.  
• PRL Integrated Testing:  
o After the final code merge (a dedicated period for the merge might be necessary).  
o Can begin only after all teams have completed the PRL happy flow testing on the 
specifications to be integratedly tested.  
o After the smoke tests, the happy flow LXs are validated, followed then by the regression 
testing.  
--- Page 138 ---
1. Within the ICD, an "Integrated Testing" issue type is created, according to the information on the 
page Create "Integrated Testing" Issue type.  
2. In the Xray library, it is necessary to create a sub -folder with the name of the cross project, following 
the steps from Create Xray sub -folder, in the "Integrated tests (Cross -team Projects)" folder.  
3. Defining scenarios  
• Testing TL creates an Excel file and organizes a meeting with the BA and testers where the end -to-
end flows are established.  
• Existing LXs are reused or created from scratch. More information about creating LXs can be found 
on page 02. Creating tests in Xray (*) - QA - Confluence.  
• LXs are moved into the integrated testing folder and labeled accordingly.  
• Collaboration between teams for the complete coverage of the flows.  
4. UAT Integrated testing  
• A Test Execution is created on the "Integrated Testing" issue type.  
• The LXs from the integrated testing Xray folder related to the project are added.  
• The LXs are executed according to the end -to-end flow; steps marked Pass / Fail; bugs reported 
accordingly.  
• After execution and bug retesting, the Demo meeting is organized for obtaining acceptance.  
5. PRL Integrated testing  
• A Test Execution is created on the "Integrated Testing" issue type.  
• The happy flow type LXs are added.  
• The LXs are executed strictly according to the main flow; steps marked Pass / Fail; bugs reported 
accordingly.  
• After execution and bug retesting, the flow can be promoted to Golive.  
01. Create Integrated testing issue type  
At the beginning of the project, in the planning phase, an "Integrated testing" issue type will be created, 
under the ICD project, with "Parent link" to the ICD for which the integrated testing is performed.  
The person responsible for opening this issue and the following testing sub -tasks below is the QA Team 
Lead who is allocated as coordinator on the project.  
Recommended sub -tasks  
1. Defining Scenarios  
2. UAT Integrated Testing  
3. PRL Integrated Testing  
02. Create Xray sub -folder  
How to add a new sub -folder  
--- Page 139 ---
1. Select the parent folder "Integrated tests (Cross -team Projects)" and press the “+” icon at the bottom 
of the page  
2. Modify the sub -folder's name from "New folder" into the project's name  
03. Defining scenarios  
Within the UAT Integrated testing, defining the scenarios represents a critical activity:  
1. The Testing Team Leader is responsible for:  
• creating an Excel file that will contain multiple sheets (one for each involved team) and a general 
sheet structuring the high -level flow and the preconditions for starting integrated testing;  
• organizing an alignment meeting with Business Analysts (BA) and testers, where the flows to be 
tested are discussed.  
2. Identifying prerequisites / test data  
• All testers work in close collaboration with BAs, POs to identify and use relevant test data for testing 
the end -to-end flow.  
• The identified prerequisites will be noted in the Excel file created by the TL, so they can be handy 
for all involved testers.  
• Examples: test environment, users/rights, account types, client types, signature types, CUI/CNP etc.  
3. Defining the end -to-end flow  
• The first sheet from the Excel file will contain the end -to-end flow, established following the meeting 
with the BA and testers;  
• This flow represents the basis for defining the integrated testing scenarios;  
• The Excel file (or relevant sheet) can be attached to the task where the testing will be performed.  
• End-to-end flows will contain both positive and negative scenarios and edge -cases.  
4. Reusing and creating scenarios (LXs)  
• Existing LXs, created previously for testing at the User Story (US) level, will be reused as much as 
possible;  
• if other relevant scenarios are identified compared to the already defined ones, they will be defined, 
according to the established end -to-end flow.  
• Tests are created manually (not AI generated – the AI option to be evaluated in the future).  
5. Organizing scenarios for integrated testing (Xray)  
• The LXs used for integrated testing will be:  
o moved / created in the dedicated integrated testing sub -folder of the cross project;  
o labeled (labels) with:  
▪ integratedtesting (testareintegrata)  
▪ the related ICD number.  
• the scenarios will be organized in the common scenarios folder, which can contain:  
--- Page 140 ---
o scenarios merged into a single LX, coming from different teams;  
o scenarios chronologically ordered in multiple LXs, so that the logical thread of the 
implementation can be followed when running them.  
6. Collaboration and complete flow coverage  
• The test prerequisites will be established from the beginning, and then all involved teams will use 
them progressively;  
• All testers work in close collaboration to define LXs that:  
o cover all the transitions of a flow;  
o include all the influenced applications;  
o are adapted depending on the tested cases.  
04. UAT Integrated testing  
UAT Execution – Integrated testing  
Test execution within UAT – Integrated testing is performed based on the previously defined scenarios 
(LXs) and aims to validate the end -to-end flows, according to business requirements.  
1. Creating the Test Execution  
• At the ICD level, an "Integrated testing" type issue will be opened and related to a User Story, which 
will be opened by the Testing TL on the ATQ testing project in Jira.  
This User Story will contain the sub test execution for UAT Testing - "UAT Integrated testing".  
2. Adding scenarios (LXs)  
• Within the Test Execution, all LXs defined for the integrated testing will be added. For more details 
on how to add LXs, see the page 01. Adding LXs on Sub Test Execution (*) - QA - Confluence  
• The scenarios will be added:  
o from the integrated testing folder;  
o appropriately labeled (integratedtesting, ICD number);  
• The LXs must reflect the chronological end -to-end flow established in the scenario definition stage.  
• The test data must be common for each flow (e.g., the same CUI/CNP used throughout the entire 
integrated testing flow - from application 1 to application 5). This implies close collaboration 
between BA, PO and testers, to ensure that the used data is relev ant for the flows to be tested and that 
it will be used by all involved testers, depending on the moment the flow is at.  
3. Preparation for execution  
• Before running, the testers will verify:  
o the existence of all necessary LXs;  
o the logical order of the scenarios, where this is relevant;  
o the clarity of the steps and the correctness of the test data to be used for the end -to-end flow;  
• Any identified unclarity will be corrected before execution begins.  
--- Page 141 ---
4. Executing scenarios  
• The LXs will be executed according to the established order, following the transitions between 
applications and the complete validation of the flows;  
• For each LX:  
o steps will be marked as Pass / Fail;  
o relevant observations will be added, if applicable.  
• Each tester will be able to run their steps from a common LX or their own LXs, by modifying the 
assignee on the sub -test execution.  
5. Defect management  
• If a defect is identified:  
o a bug associated with the failed step will be created. The steps for opening a bug are found in 
Integrated Testing Bug - QA - Confluence  
o the created bugs will be linked through "relates to" with the "Integrated testing" issue type  
6. Finalizing UAT execution  
• After running all LXs:  
o the general status of the Test Execution will be checked;  
o the complete coverage of the end -to-end flows will be confirmed;  
o it will be confirmed that critical defects have been resolved (by closing all bugs).  
7. Requesting DEMO Preview meeting  
• Being a project with high complexity, a DEMO Preview meeting will be requested for validating the 
deliverables before the official demo, according to the workflow described here: 2. Validating flows - 
DEMO Preview meeting - QA - Confluence  
8. Holding the DEMO meeting  
After completing the tests in the UAT test environment and after retesting the bugs, the Demo meeting is 
held to obtain acceptance:  
• Scrum Master sends an invitation for the Demo meeting to: Product owner, Project Beneficiaries and 
other involved persons (BAs, developers, other people from business or involved in the project).  
• The Demo meeting is held by the involved Testers, each of them being responsible to present the 
tested area, respecting the steps from 04. DEMO Presentation in Agile \SCRUM with the purpose of 
obtaining acceptance.  
• After obtaining acceptance following the Demo meeting, the UAT Integrated testing Sub Test 
Execution status is modified from In Progress to Done. (the time spent in the Demo meeting is 
logged on the UAT Integrated Testing Sub Test Execution).  
05. PRL Integrated testing  
Execution in PRL follows the same structure and the same steps as the UAT Execution – Integrated testing, 
with the following specific differences:  
--- Page 142 ---
1. Creating the Test Execution  
• The User Story opened by the Testing TL on the ATQ testing project in Jira and related to the 
"Integrated testing" type issue will contain, besides the sub -test execution for UAT Testing, the sub 
test execution for PRL Testing - "PRL Integrated testing".  
2. Purpose of testing  
• In PRL, exclusively happy flow end -to-end scenarios are validated;  
• The complete coverage of end -to-end flows or all possible transitions is not pursued.  
3. Selecting scenarios (LXs)  
• Only happy flow type LXs are included;  
• Do not add:  
o negative scenarios;  
o alternative scenarios;  
o edge cases;  
• Existing LXs (scenarios previously validated in UAT) can be reused, without expanding them 
beyond the main flow.  
4. Executing scenarios  
• The scenarios are executed strictly according to the main flow, without intentional deviations.  
• Each involved tester will execute the steps related to the functionality developed within their Scrum 
team, using the same test data throughout the flow.  
5. Completion criteria  
• PRL execution is considered finalized when:  
o all happy flow scenarios are executed;  
o there are no critical blockages on the main flow;  
• The result supports the decision to promote to Go Live.  
06. Integrated Testing Bug Reporting  
Bugs will be reported according to the working mode described in 03. Reporting a Bug - QA - Confluence  
The differences in reporting Integrated Testing bugs are covered in the dedicated Integrated Testing Bug 
page.  
13. Testing Technical Tasks Workflow  
These tasks will be able to be opened in case there is no activity on projects.  
These tasks can be opened if needed by any role or for any activity that the Team Lead considers appropriate 
to be taken over.  
  
--- Page 143 ---
13. Testing Technical Tasks Workflow  
These tasks can be opened in case there is no activity on projects.  
These tasks can be opened if needed by any role or for any activity that the Team Lead considers appropriate 
to be taken over.  
01. Exploratory Testing Task ( -) 
To rewrite the text below to make it understood that it is only for Exploratory Testing. To add details about 
the specific name of this type of Task, how the details from this Task are filled in: Category, Story Points 
etc., to evaluate if a more static eq uivalency from hours to SP or a table with hours and SP isn't more 
suitable  
The additional task for extended testing represents an activity created when the testing effort of a User Story 
or an application exceeds the initial estimate or when additional testing is necessary (e.g.: exploratory 
testing).  
This task can be opened including for exploratory testing of an application that we want to evaluate or 
understand better.  
The task is opened by the TL in the Scrum_TA project filling in the description field with the following 
information:  
Testing Session / Task  
Build:  
Filled in by the tester.  
Environment:  
Specifies the environment where the testing is performed.  
Testing objective  
Defines the area validated within the task (functionalities, flows, integration, regression etc.).  
The objective can be established at the beginning of the testing or adjusted along the way, depending on the 
results and discoveries during testing.  
Results  
Identified defects:  
They are documented and linked to this task.  
Relevant observations:  
Unexpected behaviors, limitations or aspects that require clarification.  
Identified risks:  
Areas with potential functional or technical impact.  
Conclusion  
Establishes the stability level of the tested area:  
Stable / Medium risk / High risk  
--- Page 144 ---
When it is opened  
• High functional complexity  
• The need for exploratory testing (US or new application)  
• Large volume of scenarios or data combinations  
• Additional investigations following defects  
• Unclear requirements that need additional analysis and validation  
• Major changes that appeared after the initial estimation  
Estimation  
• It is estimated separately in Story Points (SP)  
• The estimation is done by mutual agreement of the Team Leader and Tester  
• It is based on complexity, impact area and risks  
Other situations where additional tasks estimated in SP for QA can be opened  
• Preparation or updating of complex test data  
• Special environment setup or configurations  
• Post-release validations (extended smoke, production checks, pilot project)  
• Support investigations for critical bugs  
• Impact analysis for major technical modifications  
02. Update Regression \Smoke Tests Suite Task  
Must be detailed with:  
• Story Points and how they are added : ? SP in hours or an equivalence table  
• clear output: which LXs were updated and them linked to this Task  
• the modified LXs must contain comments with the made modifications  
Output example  
Task: Update Regression Suite – Checkout Module  
Scope:  
• 85 test cases analyzed  
• 20 smoke tests included  
• coverage last 3 releases  
Activities:  
• Complete test cases review  
• Duplicate elimination  
• Steps update according to new requirements  
--- Page 145 ---
• Creation of test cases for new flows  
• Naming convention alignment  
Results:  
• 85 reviewed  
• 18 updated  
• 7 eliminated  
• 12 created  
• +10% real coverage estimation  
03. Execute Regression Tests on area Task  
Must be detailed with:  
• Story Points and how they are added : ? SP in hours or an equivalence table  
• clear output: which LXs were updated and them linked to this Task  
• the modified LXs must contain comments with the made modifications  
Example below  
B. Scope (very clearly defined)  
Includes:  
• Module/Feature: ex. Payments  
• Release: 2.4  
• Environment: QA / UAT  
• Build version  
• Total no. of planned test cases  
Example:  
• 120 test cases  
• 25 smoke included  
• 95 regression  
• Executed on QA build 2.4.0.15  
• Cross -browser: Chrome + Edge  
3. Measurable metrics (mandatory)  
This makes the task trackable.  
Quantitative metrics:  
• Total planned test cases: 120  
• Executed: 120  
--- Page 146 ---
• Passed: 104  
• Failed: 10  
• Blocked: 6  
• Reported defects: 8  
• Duplicate defects: 2  
• Success rate: 86.6%  
Time metrics:  
• Estimate: 3 days  
• Real: 2.5 days  
• Average time per test case: 7 minutes  
Defects metrics:  
• Severity:  
o 2 Critical  
o 3 Major  
o 3 Minor  
• Affected areas  
4. Activities included in the Task  
Clearly listed:  
• Executing test cases according to approved suite  
• Logging defects in Jira  
• Re-test for fixed defects  
• Updating status in Test Management Tool  
• Final regression report  
04. Business Flows Testing Documentation Task  
The information can be added here Banking flows - QA - Confluence  
example below  
QA WIKI – Complex Multi -System Flows Functional Testing  
   Flow Overview  
• Flow name: Ex: „Order → Payment → Invoice → Notification”  
• Involved systems:  
o Web Application (Frontend)  
o Core API  
--- Page 147 ---
o Payments System  
o Billing System  
o Email System  
• Flow type: synchronous / asynchronous / mixed  
• Criticality: High / Medium / Low  
• QA Owner  
   Simplified Functional Architecture (QA View)  
Not a complex technical diagram, but a view from the tester's perspective:  
User → Web App → API → Payment Service → Billing → Notification  
Purpose: for the tester to know where the data must be validated.  
   Test Users (Cross -System)  
Client  Web App  qa_client_01  Without restrictions  
Admin  Backoffice  qa_admin_01  Can change status  
Finance  Billing System  qa_fin_01  Can validate invoice  
Include:  
• Permissions on each system  
• If the user exists in all systems  
• User ID mapping between systems (important!)  
• Necessary pre -existing data (e.g.: positive balance)  
   Test Data – Correlated between Systems  
A. Initial data  
• Active product  
• Available stock  
• Valid payment method  
• Active tax configuration  
B. Data generated along the flow  
• Order ID (Web)  
• Transaction ID (Payment)  
• Invoice ID (Billing)  
• Notification ID  
--- Page 148 ---
The Wiki must indicate:  
✔ where each ID appears  
✔ how it is verified  
✔ in which system  
   Functional Breakdown of the Flow (Cross -System)  
  Step 1 – Order Creation (Web)  
User action:  
• Selects product  
• Enters data  
• Confirms order  
Validations:  
• Total correctly calculated  
• Order ID generated  
• Status = „Pending Payment”  
• Order saved in DB  
  Step 2 – Payment (Payment Service)  
User action:  
• Enters card data  
• Confirms payment  
Validations:  
• Correct redirect  
• Transaction ID generated  
• Payment Status = Success  
• Order ID ↔ Transaction ID correlation  
Critical point:  
• What happens if the payment fails?  
• What happens at timeout?  
  Step 3 – Invoice Generation (Billing)  
Trigger:  
• Payment Success  
Validations:  
--- Page 149 ---
• Invoice automatically generated  
• Invoice ID associated to Order ID  
• Correct values (taxes, discount)  
• Invoice status = „Issued”  
  Step 4 – Notification (Email/SMS)  
Validations:  
• Email sent  
• Correct content  
• Correct attachment  
• Correct Order ID association  
   Critical Synchronization Points  
This is the essential section for complex flows.  
• Status consistency between systems  
• Processing delay  
• Retry mechanism  
• Event duplication  
• Orphan records  
• Lost asynchronous messages  
   Cross -System Functional Scenarios  
Happy Flow  
The entire complete flow without interventions.  
Negative Scenarios  
• Payment failed → Order returns to Pending  
• Payment success but invoice not generated  
• Email service unavailable  
• Double click on confirmation  
Edge Cases  
• External timeout  
• Manual retry  
• Manual reprocessing in backoffice  
   Inter -System Validations  
--- Page 150 ---
Order ID  Web  API Consistency  
Payment Status  Payment  Web Synchronization  
Invoice Amount  Billing  Order  Correctness  
Email content  Notification  Order  Correct data  
   Typical Problems in Complex Flows  
• Desynchronized status  
• Different values between systems  
• Uncorrelated IDs  
• Retry that creates duplicates  
• Lack of rollback  
    Environment Reset After Test  
Important for complex flows:  
• Order deletion  
• Invoice cancellation  
• Transaction refund  
• Manual status reset  
      How to make it measurable as a Task  
Metrics example:  
• 1 complex flow documented  
• 5 systems analyzed  
• 12 inter -system points identified  
• 8 cross -system negative scenarios  
• 15 synchronization validations defined  
• 6 generated data documented  
05. Analysis Task  
1. Defect Analysis. Examples:  
Recurring Defects Analysis  
2. Reproducing closed bugs from past releases  
3. Testing times analysis  
--- Page 151 ---
4. Identifying test data (hard to find) and what can be automated. Example of what Andreea did on 
Credit Analysis [RAP -6649] Report automation request – Identifying eligible clients for Credit 
Analysis testing...  
can use Most used client types - QA - Confluence and Most used users - QA - Confluence  
5. how PowerBI can be used, started here PowerBI Access - DWH Database - QA - Confluence or 
Database Testing - QA - Confluence  
6. update productivity report documentation Manual Testing Productivity Report - QA - Confluence  
7. Review on the information here: Most used users - QA - Confluence and Most used client types - QA 
- Confluence  
8. to continue API Testing - Swagger - QA - Confluence  
9. Review AI Test Manager prompts  
06. Testing processes improvement Task  
examples:  
1. Creating checklists: Smoke testing, Regression etc.  
2. Defining a regression strategy  
3. Review what can be improved in the workflow with Test Manager  
4. review what can be improved in Jira - fields, statuses, workflows on User Story, Sub -tasks, Bugs, 
Incidents etc.  
5. review what can be improved in the productivity report  
6. review what can be improved in testing efficiency: proposals etc.  
7. Review Confluence workflow  
07. Automation Testing activities Task  
Maintenance of Auto Tests that are failed  
Creating negative scenarios or edge cases starting from existing happy path auto tests  
 
02. Guides for specific testing types  
02. How to split LX type tests into smaller Test Cases using AI  
Within the manual testing processes, LX type tests (large, monolithic test cases) can become hard to 
manage, maintain and reuse. With the help of artificial intelligence, these tests can be automatically 
processed to generate granular, easy to understand T est Cases that can be imported back into the test 
management systems.  
Objective  
Using AI, we want to:  
• Extract the logical structure of a large test.  
• Decompose it into independent test units.  
--- Page 152 ---
• Automate formatting and generating output compatible with Jira Xray and UiPath Test Manager.  
Process  1. Input: An XML file exported from Jira/Xray containing the sequence of steps (Action, Data, 
Expected_Result).  
2. Processing: The AI analyzes the sequences, identifies logical pairs (action + verification) and generates a 
distinct Test Case for each. (ChatGPT recommendation)  
3. Output: A structured file (e.g. .xlsx) containing:  
• Unique identifier (TC -nnn) 
• Automatically generated name from the action content  
• Details about steps (action, data, expected result)  
AI prompt example (for ChatGPT)  
I have an XML file exported from Jira/Xray containing a very large manual test, consisting of many steps. I 
want you to transform this test into a set of smaller Test Cases, each grouping the steps in a logical and 
coherent way.  
For each Test Case:  
• Automatically detect how many steps need to be grouped together (depending on the action, context 
and expected result).  
• Generate a descriptive and clear title that reflects the test's purpose, based on the first significant 
step. Do not include the entire text, just the essential information.  
• Ensure the title is completely displayed in the final file (without truncation).  
Generate an .XLSX file with the following structure:  
• Test Case: formatted as TC -001 - [descriptive title]  
• Step N Action  
• Step N Data  
• Step N Expected Result  
Do not impose a fixed limit of steps per test. The final structure must be suitable for import into Jira Xray or 
UiPath Test Manager.  
Bug Generation from Google Chrome Developer Tools - Network using AI  
Google Chrome must be used - the user must be signed -in to Google  
AI Innovation must be activated from Settings in Developer Tools (F12)  
Then from the Network tab go to the element on the page with Error  
And enter the prompt for generating the Bug:  
"write me a detailed bug report from this network error including title, summary, description steps to 
reproduce, exepected and actual results. write it in romanian languange"  
Okay, I can help you with that! Here's a detailed bug report in Romanian, based on the network request 
information you provided.  
--- Page 153 ---
Raport de Eroare  
Titlu:  Imagine GIF Depășită Livrată în Loc de Format Optimizat și Apelată din Contextul Greșit  
Sumar:  
Imaginea doc_delete.gif, potențial folosită ca iconiță sau element vizual pentru ștergerea unui document, 
este livrată ca un fișier GIF depășit. Imaginea a fost modificată ultima dată în 2017 și nu folosește formate 
de imagine moderne și mai eficiente, pre cum WebP sau A VIF, care sunt suportate de browserul clientului. 
Mai mult, cererea imaginii a provenit din pagina de autentificare, dar este legată de o acțiune de document.  
Descriere:  
Cererea de rețea pentru imaginea doc_delete.gif rezultă în livrarea unui fișier GIF vechi și potențial 
ineficient. Antetul Last -Modified arată că imaginea a fost modificată ultima dată în 2017, sugerând că este 
depășită. În plus, deși browserul clientului acceptă formate de imagine moderne precum WebP și AVIF, 
serverul livrează în continuare un fișier GIF. Acest lucru rezultă într -o oportunitate ratată de optimizare a 
performanței și de reducere a dimensiunii fișierului. În plus, imaginea doc_delete.gif est e apelată din pagina 
de login, dar logica ei este legată de un document, ceea ce e incorect.  
Pași pentru Reproducere:  
• Accesați pagina https://librahome/users/login.  
• Deschideți Developer Tools al browserului (de obicei apăsând F12).  
• Navigați la tab -ul "Rețea" (Network).  
• Reîmprospătați pagina.  
• Filtrați cererile căutând doc_delete.gif.  
• Selectați cererea de rețea doc_delete.gif.  
• Observați antetele de răspuns, în special Content -Type și Last -Modified.  
• Observați tab -ul "Inițiator" și verificați lanțul.  
Rezultate Așteptate:  
• Imaginea doc_delete ar trebui să fie într -un format de imagine modern (WebP sau A VIF) pentru a 
oferi o compresie mai bună și o calitate vizuală superioară.  
• Imaginea doc_delete ar trebui să fie actualizată conform ghidurilor de design curente.  
• Imaginea doc_delete nu ar trebui să fie apelată din pagina de login.  
Rezultate Reale:  
• Content -Type este image/gif, indicând un format de imagine mai vechi, potențial mai puțin eficient.  
• Data Last -Modified este Thu, 02 Nov 2017 15:48:55 GMT, arătând că imaginea este depășită.  
• Lanțul din "Inițiator" arată o origine greșită.  
Severitate:  
Medie. Deși imaginea se încarcă, există oportunități de îmbunătățire a performanței, a designului și a logicii.  
Prioritate:  
--- Page 154 ---
Medie. Rezolvarea acestui aspect este benefică pentru performanța generală a site -ului și pentru consistența 
designului, dar s -ar putea să nu fie un blocant critic.  
Mediu:  
• Browser: Chrome 133 (conform User -Agent)  
• Sistem de Operare: Windows 10 (conform User -Agent)  
• Server: Nginx  
Note Adiționale:  
• Luați în considerare actualizarea tuturor imaginilor din directorul /images la formate moderne.  
• Revizuiți designul și relevanța imaginii doc_delete.gif.  
• Verificați logica pentru a vedea de ce imaginea este apelată din pagina de autentificare.  
Explanation of Romanian Terms:  
• Raport de Eroare: Bug Report  
• Titlu: Title  
• Sumar: Summary  
• Descriere: Description  
• Pași pentru Reproducere: Steps to Reproduce  
• Rezultate Așteptate: Expected Results  
• Rezultate Reale: Actual Results  
• Severitate: Severity  
• Prioritate: Priority  
• Mediu: Environment  
• Note Adiționale: Additional Notes  
• Antet: Header  
• Rețea: Network  
• Inițiator: Initiator  
• Depășită: Outdated  
• Optimizat: Optimized  
• Apelată: Called  
• Contextul greșit: Wrong context.  
This detailed bug report in Romanian should be helpful for your team to understand and address the issues 
with the doc_delete.gif image. Let me know if you have any other requests!  
Linking Test Manager drafts to Xray folders  
--- Page 155 ---
After importing the Test Cases in Test Manager, they are automatically loaded into the Xray Test Repository 
as well.  
Each main folder of the scrum team has a subfolder named "Test Manager Drafts" . In each team's folder, all 
the Test Cases generated with Test Manager can be found.  
Below you can find the links to the Test Manager Draft subfolders assigned to each scrum team in Xray.  
Scrum 
Team  Draft Xray Link  
Scrum 
Alte 
Divizii  https://jira.libra.bank/secure/XrayTestRepositoryAction!default.jspa?entityKey=LX&path=
Scrum%20ALTE%20DIVIZII%2FDrafturi%20Test%20Manager  
Scrum 
Cardur
i https://jira.libra.bank/secure/XrayTestRepositoryAction!default.jspa?entityKey=LX&path=
Scrum%20CARDURI%2FDrafturi%20Test%20Manager  
Scrum 
Confor
mitate 
si 
Antifr
auda  https://jira.libra.bank/secure/XrayTestRepositoryAction!default.jspa?entityKey=LX&path=
Scrum%20CONFORMITATE%20SI%20ANTIFRAUDA%2FDrafturi%20Test%20Manage
r  
Scrum 
IBK https://jira.libra.bank/secure/XrayTestRepositoryAction!default.jspa?entityKey=LX&path=
Scrum%20IBK%2FDrafturi%20Test%20Manager  
Scrum 
MBK  https://jira.libra.bank/secure/XrayTestRepositoryAction!default.jspa?entityKey=LX&path=
Scrum%20MBK%2FDrafturi%20Test%20Manager  
Scrum 
Libra 
Wallet  https://jira.libra.bank/secure/XrayTestRepositoryAction!default.jspa?entityKey=LX&path=
Scrum%20LIBRA%20WALLET%2FDrafturi%20Test%20Manager  
Scrum 
Digital  https://jira.libra.bank/secure/XrayTestRepositoryAction!default.jspa?entityKey=LX&path=
Scrum%20DIGITAL%2FDrafturi%20Test%20Manager  
Scrum 
Digital
izare 
Fluxurhttps://jira.libra.bank/secure/XrayTestRepositoryAction!default.jspa?entityKey=LX&path=
Scrum%20DIGITALIZARE%20FLUXURI%20CLIENTI%2FDrafturi%20Test%20Manage
r  
--- Page 156 ---
Scrum 
Team  Draft Xray Link  
i 
Clienti  
Scrum 
LibraP
ay https://jira.libra.bank/secure/XrayTestRepositoryAction!default.jspa?entityKey=LX&path=
Scrum%20LIBRAPAY%2FDrafturi%20Test%20Manager  
Scrum 
CP https://jira.libra.bank/secure/XrayTestRepositoryAction!default.jspa?entityKey=LX&path=
Scrum%20CP%2FDrafturi%20Test%20Manager  
Scrum 
Operat
iuni https://jira.libra.bank/secure/XrayTestRepositoryAction!default.jspa?entityKey=LX&path=
Scrum%20OPERATIUNI%2FDrafturi%20test%20Manager  
Scrum 
Creati
o 
Deschi
dere 
Client  https://jira.libra.bank/secure/XrayTestRepositoryAction!default.jspa?entityKey=LX&path=
Scrum%20CREATIO%20DESCHIDERE%20CLIENT%2FDrafturi%20Test%20Manager  
Scrum 
Decon
tari https://jira.libra.bank/secure/XrayTestRepositoryAction!default.jspa?entityKey=LX&path=
Scrum%20DECONTARI%2FDrafturi%20Test%20Manager  
Scrum 
Digital 
Hub https://jira.libra.bank/secure/XrayTestRepositoryAction!default.jspa?entityKey=LX&path=
Scrum%20DIGITAL%20HUB%2FDrafturi%20Test%20Manager  
Scrum 
Flow 
Credit
e https://jira.libra.bank/secure/XrayTestRepositoryAction!default.jspa?entityKey=LX&path=
Scrum%20FLOW%20CREDITE%2FDrafturi%20Test%20Manager  
Scrum 
Admin
istrare 
Credit
e https://jira.libra.bank/secure/XrayTestRepositoryAction!default.jspa?entityKey=LX&path=
Scrum%20ADMINISTRARE%20CREDITE%2FDrafturi%20Test%20Manager  
--- Page 157 ---
Scrum 
Team  Draft Xray Link  
Scrum 
Analiz
a 
Credit
e https://jira.libra.bank/secure/XrayTestRepositoryAction!default.jspa?entityKey=LX&path=
Scrum%20ANALIZA%20CREDITE%2FDrafturi%20Test%20Manager  
Scrum 
Admin
istrare
a 
Riscur
ilor https://jira.libra.bank/secure/XrayTestRepositoryAction!default.jspa?entityKey=LX&path=
Scrum%20Administrare%20RISC%2FDrafturi%20Test%20Manage  
UiPath Test Manager Workflow - Creatio Client Opening Pilot  
To start writing scenarios and automating, user stories without written scenarios are chosen. The query 
below can be used  
type = Story AND status in ( "Ready For Testing", "In testing") AND project = SCF  
Jira User Stories are synchronized with UiPath Test Manager. To find the User Story search for the 
requirement in UiPath by title in the Requirement section for the Requirements - Test Manager project  
The workflow requires creating the tasks below in each User Story  
Defining scenarios (existing task):  manual tester and \or auto tester work on designing the scenarios  
• UiPath Test Manager is used to generate AI test cases  
• the 2 prompts are used:  
o US Validation - UAT Testing - Negative scenarios  
o US Validation - UAT Testing - positive scenarios  
• all generated tests that are considered relevant are selected. Upon generation, the tests will be named 
“negative scenario”, “positive scenario”, “regression scenario”  
• upon generation, the tests will also have labels: "negative -scenario", "positive -scenario", "regression 
scenario"  
• manual tester and \or auto tester evaluate the AI scenarios  
• where AI generated tests are incomplete (missing info, expression problems) an edit is made in 
UiPath Test Manager  
• manual tester and auto tester evaluate if the AI scenarios cover everything needed to ensure complete 
testing;  
• in case extra test scenarios are needed, scenario generation is forced using AI with new prompts  
--- Page 158 ---
• AI generated tests automatically appear in the LX project for the tested project (the query type = test 
and issue in testRepositoryFolderTests("LX", 'Scrum CREATIO DESCHIDERE CLIENT', "true") 
and reporter = jira.automation ORDER BY createdDate desc  can be used)  
• The Test Case is created with Test Type = Manual ; it will be modified later by Test Automation  
After being generated and synced to Jira, the LXs must be edited for the following information:  
• reporter \assignee fields - if assignee cannot be edited: a solution to know which LXs you worked on 
is to make the transition to status Defining -> Finalized Scenarios; then a Jira query can be used to 
track type = test and issue in testRepositoryFolderTests("LX", 'Scrum CREATIO DESCHIDERE 
CLIENT', "true") and reporter = jira.automation and status changed by currentUser()  
• added labels (project specific)  
• create links to the tested User Story  
• added Priority according to the orientation guide 04. LX Priorities (*)  
• change status to the corresponding one:  
o if scenarios are considered complete status Defining -> Finalized Scenarios \Live 
o if scenarios are considered incomplete or there were creation mistakes \errors status Defining -
> Archived  
Attention! AI generated scenarios must also be tested (manual or auto);  
The scenarios are sent for validation to the PO as before via email  
The LXs will be listed in the email  
UAT Testing (existing task) – manual tester  * scenarios are tested manually as in the as -is workflow: test 
case execution, manual testing etc.  
Developing Auto Tests new task – auto tester  * auto tests development starts at the same time as UAT 
testing. To be able to identify LXs generated with AI the Jira filter can be used: type = test and issue in 
testRepositoryFolderTests("LX", 'Scrum CREATIO DESCHIDERE CLIENT', "true") and 
reporter=jira.automation and status ="Scenarii finalizate"  
• LXs will be automated in priority order;  
o Priority = Urgent will be the first to be automated;  
o Not a priority will be the last to be automated  
• Evaluate if screens \objects already exist;  
• Completely new implementations require adding object repository (activity separate from 
framework) screens + objects  
• Developed tests must be parameterized (using arguments) to be able to run on UAT and PRL) from 
Uipath Studio  
• The 3 tests created by UiPath (AI generated) are used as a starting point; tests are imported into 
UiPath Studio  
• “generate with autopilot” functionality is used  
--- Page 159 ---
• Search by ID from Test Manager  
• if the generated auto test runs ok at Run and is considered complete publish is done in 
Orchestrator \Shared  
• if the generated auto test does not run ok at Run or is considered incomplete -> manual edit is done  
• when the test is considered complete publish is done in Orchestrator \Shared -> the test appears in 
orchestrator  
• After automating the test, the LX will be edited in Test Type = Automated – The test modifies test 
coverage dashboard + 1 to Automated Tests  
PRL Testing (existing task) – manual tester  
• run from Orchestrator using Test Robot on the auto tests created for UAT testing  
• Manual or auto tester from Test Manager adds the test case into a test set and then the automatic test 
is run from Test Manager  
• Using arguments the PRL environment will be chosen  
UiPath Test Manager Workflow - Digital team Pilot  
To start writing scenarios and automating, user stories without written scenarios are chosen.  
Jira User Stories are synchronized with UiPath Test Manager. To find the User Story search for the 
requirement in UiPath by title in the Requirement section for the Requirements - Test Manager project  
The workflow requires creating the tasks below in each User Story  
Defining scenarios (existing task):  manual tester and \or auto tester work on designing the scenarios  
• UiPath Test Manager is used to generate AI test cases  
• the 2 prompts are used:  
o US Validation - UAT Testing - Negative scenarios  
o US Validation - UAT Testing - positive scenarios  
• all generated tests that are considered relevant are selected. Upon generation, the tests will be named 
“negative scenario”, “positive scenario”, “regression scenario”  
• upon generation, the tests will also have labels: "negative -scenario", "positive -scenario", "regression 
scenario"  
• manual tester evaluates the AI scenarios  
• where AI generated tests are incomplete (missing info, expression problems) an edit is made in 
UiPath Test Manager  
• manual tester evaluates if the AI scenarios cover everything needed to ensure complete testing;  
• in case extra test scenarios are needed, scenario generation is forced using AI with new prompts  
• AI generated tests automatically appear in the LX project for the tested project (the query type = test 
and issue in testRepositoryFolderTests("LX", 'Scrum Digital', "true") and reporter = jira.automation 
ORDER BY createdDate desc  can be used)  
--- Page 160 ---
• The Test Case is created with Test Type = Manual  
After being generated and synced to Jira, the LXs must be edited for the following information:  
• reporter \assignee fields - if assignee cannot be edited: a solution to know which LXs you worked on 
is to make the transition to status Defining -> Finalized Scenarios; then a Jira query can be used to 
track type = test and issue in testRepositoryFolderTests("LX", 'Scrum CREATIO DESCHIDERE 
CLIENT', "true") and reporter = jira.automation and status changed by currentUser()  
• added labels (project specific)  
• create links to the tested User Story  
• added Priority according to the orientation guide 04. LX Priorities (*)  
• change status to the corresponding one:  
o if scenarios are considered complete status Defining -> Finalized Scenarios  
o if scenarios are considered incomplete or there were creation mistakes \errors status Defining -
> Archived  
Attention! AI generated scenarios must also be tested  
The scenarios are sent for validation to the PO as before via email  
The LXs will be listed in the email  
Useful Prompts  
UiPath Test Manager  
UAT Testing Prompt  
Generate test cases that test the requirement end -to-end. 
There should be at least 1 positive test case marked in the title as "scenariu pozitiv"  
There should be at least 1 negative test case marked in the the title as "scenariu negativ"  
There should be at least 1 regression test case marked in the title as "scenariu regresie"  
Generate only 3 test cases that respect the previous conditions  
All Test Case steps need to have expected behavior  
The case cases have to be in Romanian language  
Proposal for Manual -Automation Testing workflow in teams  
Preconditions  
• UiPath Test Manager license must exist (1 license at organization \tenant level)  
• available Automation Developer Cloud licenses must exist for testers who will generate LXs using 
AI (1 license per user)  
• Planview integration (described here Planview \Tasktop Configuration) must be done for the team's 
SCRUM Project ↔ Test Manager Project (replicated from the integration done for Creatio Client 
Opening) - planview requires license - 1 license per bank. Minimum necessary described below  
--- Page 161 ---
Requirements \User Stories Integration  
Minimum necessary integration is unidirectional Jira User Story (Description field) → UiPath Test Manager 
(Requirements section)  
Test Cases Integration  
Minimum necessary integration is unidirectional UiPath Test Manager Test Case → Jira \Xray Test Case 
(LX)  
If automated tests already exist : Initial recommendations for Test Automation  * evaluating already 
automated tests for the team  
• if they exist : mapping to existing LXs : - see last point  
• if they don't exist → they must be created; they can be created either manually as a "placeholder" or 
generated with AI using Test Manager (described below)  
• LXs must be set with priority according to 04. LX Priorities (*)  
• LXs must be set with Test Type = Automated  
• LXs must be set status = Finalized Scenarios  
• the automated test (the script) should be linked with the LX  
• in case there is an application to make the link : Git, UiPath Test Manager? - not implemented yet  
• in case there is no method to make a link a comment can be put on the LX with the repository path 
for the automated test  
• Following the evaluation, prioritization and settings on the LXs above, the tests will appear in the 
test automation coverage Dashboard: Test Automation Coverage  
To start writing scenarios and automating them, user stories without written scenarios are chosen: it is 
recommended to choose User Stories from the current sprint  
Jira User Stories are synchronized with UiPath Test Manager. To find the User Story search for the 
requirement in UiPath by title in the Requirement section for the project configured in Test Manager  
The workflow requires creating the tasks below in each User Story  
Defining scenarios (existing sub -task):  manual tester and \or auto tester work (together) on designing the 
scenarios  
• UiPath Test Manager is used to generate AI test cases  
• the “UAT Testing Prompt” prompt is used - must be created at project level; the prompt is described 
here Useful Prompts  
• only the first 3 generated test cases are selected which will be named “negative scenario”, “positive 
scenario”, “regression scenario”  
• manual tester and \or auto tester evaluate the AI scenarios  
• where AI generated tests are incomplete (missing info, expression problems) an edit is made in 
UiPath Test Manager  
--- Page 162 ---
• manual tester and auto tester evaluate if the AI scenarios cover everything needed to ensure complete 
testing;  
• in case extra test scenarios are needed, scenario generation is forced using AI with new prompts  
• AI generated tests automatically appear in the LX project for the tested project (the query type = test 
and issue in testRepositoryFolderTests("LX", 'Team Test Repository Path', "true") and reporter = 
jira.automation ORDER BY createdDate desc  can be used)  
• The Test Case is created with Test Type = Manual ; it will be modified later by Test Automation  
After being generated and synced to Jira, the LXs must be manually edited with the following information:  
• the assignee field - the LXs have assignee = unassigned when they are created by the Planview sync 
between UiPath Test Manager and Jira  
• added labels (project specific)  
• create links to the tested User Story  
• added Priority according to the orientation guide 04. LX Priorities (*)  
• change status to the corresponding one:  
o if scenarios are considered complete status Defining -> Finalized Scenarios \Live 
o if scenarios are considered incomplete or there were creation mistakes \errors status Defining -
> Archived  
Attention! AI generated scenarios must also be tested (manual or auto);  
The scenarios are sent for validation to the PO \Application Owner as before via email . The LXs will be 
listed in the email to the PO \Application Owner  
UAT Testing (existing sub -task) – manual tester  * scenarios are tested manually as in the as -is workflow: 
test case execution, manual testing etc described here 01. Manual Testing Workflow  
Developing Auto Tests (new sub -task) – auto tester  Recommendations for workflow  
• auto tests development starts at the same time as UAT testing (when deployment is ready and testing 
can begin). To be able to identify LXs generated with AI the Jira filter can be used: type = test and 
issue in testRepositoryFolderTests("LX", 'Team Test Repository', "true") and 
reporter=jira.automation and status ="Scenarii finalizate" Order by Priority desc  
• LXs will be automated in priority order;  
o Priority = Urgent will be the first to be automated;  
o Not a priority will be the last to be automated  
• Evaluate if screens \objects already exist;  
• Completely new implementations require adding object repository (activity separate from 
framework) screens + objects  
• Developed tests must be parameterized to be able to run on UAT and PRL  
• The 3 tests created by UiPath (AI generated) are used as a starting point;  
--- Page 163 ---
• Ideally the test should be pushed to a central test repository to be able to be run remotely (on another 
machine than the local one)  
• After automating the test, the LX will be edited in Test Type = Automated – The test modifies test 
coverage dashboard + 1 to Automated Tests  
PRL Testing (existing sub -task) – manual tester or auto tester  
• verify if LXs were automated  
• LXs that were automated  
o if manual tester has access to run automated LX → runs the auto test on PRL environment  
o if manual tester does not have access to run automated LX → auto tester runs the auto test on 
PRL environment  
• LXs that were not automated  
o Manual tester manually executes tests in the PRL environment  
API Testing  
API Testing - Postman  
• How to install Postman  
• How to import Postman API collections  
• How to do auth  
• How to run an endpoint  
• How to modify the body  
• How to test responses 200, 400, 500 etc  
• How to interpret the result  
• What is Swagger?  
How to do auth  
To perform authentication in Postman we will use 2 methods, such as: Basic Auth and Bearer Token.  
• Basic Auth  
→Click on the “+” tab to create a new request. From the dropdown list select the POST request type. 
Subsequently, the API URL to which we want to connect + the endpoint will be entered.  
→Go to the Authorization tab from the middle section. At Auth Type, select “Basic Auth” and enter 
Username and Password.  
→In the Body section we will add the following keys, which we can observe in the image below:  
→And in the Script section we will add the following script:  
→Click on the Send button and we can observe the status 200 – OK, and in the Body section the access 
token was generated.  
• Bearer Token  
--- Page 164 ---
How to import Postman API collections  
Postman collections are imported through several methods as follows:  
• Click on “Import”, then add the file you want to import with drag&drop, and the imported collection 
will be found on the left side.  
• Click on “Import”, subsequently click on files or folders and add the collection you want to import.  
How to install Postman  
→Access the link https://www.postman.com/downloads/  and click on Windows 64 -bit. 
→Subsequently, fill in the fields and create the account.  
How to interpret the result  
Interpreting the results will be done according to the table below:  
HTTP 
Response  Status  Description  
200 OK The request was fulfilled successfully  
201 Created  The request has been fulfilled, resulting in the creation of a 
new resource  
204 No Content  The request was performed but no content is returned  
302 Found  Redirect  
400 Bad request  Similar to 403 Forbidden, but specifically for use when 
authentication is required and has failed or has not yet been 
provided  
401 Unauthorized  Similar to 403 Forbidden, but specifically for use when 
authentication is required and has failed or has not yet been 
provided  
403 Forbidden  The request was valid, but the server is refusing action. The 
user might not have the necessary permissions for a resource  
404 Not found  The requested resource could not be found but may be 
available in the future  
405 Invalid method  The method is not allowed on that specific endpoint  
--- Page 165 ---
HTTP 
Response  Status  Description  
408 Request timeout  The request timed out  
415 Unsupported 
media type  The media type supplied is unsupported  
429 Too many 
requests  The TPP has exceeded the number of requests allowed  
500 Internal server 
error  An error happened  
503 Service 
unavailable  The server is currently unavailable  
How to modify the body  
How to run an endpoint  
Click on the “+” tab to create a new request. From the dropdown list select the GET/POST/PUT/DELETE 
request type. Enter the API URL to which we want to connect + the endpoint and press SA VE.  
In the image below, the endpoint is /token:  
How to test responses 200, 400, 500 etc  
Swagger Documentation  
Swagger is a set of open -source tools for designing, documenting, and consuming RESTful APIs, based on 
the OpenAPI specification. Its main components include:  
• Interactive Documentation:  Provides a user interface that allows developers to explore APIs and 
make requests directly from the documentation.  
• Swagger Editor:  An online editor for writing and validating OpenAPI specifications.  
• Swagger Codegen:  Automatic generation of client SDKs and server stubs in various programming 
languages.  
For more information, you can access the 2 links below:  
ibk-test.libra.bank/IBK_WEB_API_DEV2/  
https://ibk -test.libra.bank/WEBAPI_IMBK_13287//swagger/ui/index#/  
API Testing - Swagger  
Windows Game Bar screen \video capture  
What is Windows Game Bar  
--- Page 166 ---
Windows Game Bar (Xbox Game Bar) is a built -in application in Windows 10 and 11, which allows:  
• Video recording of the screen (with or without sound);  
• Screenshots;  
• Monitoring PC performance;  
You can record any application (browser, desktop application, testing tool, etc.)  
How to open Game Bar  
Press the keys:  
Windows + G  
If the current application allows recording, the "Game Bar" interface appears over the current screen.  
How to start a video recording  
  Method 1: From the Game Bar interface  
1. Open the application you want to record (e.g.: banking application, browser, Word, etc.).  
2. Press Windows + G  to open the Game Bar.  
3. In the Capture panel (icon with a video camera      ), press:  
o    Start Recording (the small white circle)  
o During recording, a small floating bar appears with the duration and the    Stop Recording 
button.  
4. When you are done, press Stop.  
You will see a "Game clip recorded" notification in the top right corner.  
Method 2: Quick shortcut (without opening the bar)  
If you want to record immediately:  
Windows + Alt + R  
• Starts / stops recording directly, without opening the Game Bar.  
• It is the most used shortcut in testing or reporting bugs.  
Recording with or without sound  
Before starting:  
1. Open Windows + G . 
2. In the Capture panel, check the microphone icon    : 
o Active = will record the microphone sound as well.  
o Inactive = will record only the screen image.  
You can enable/disable the microphone during recording as well (from the small control bar).  
Where the video files are saved  
--- Page 167 ---
By default, recordings are saved automatically in:  
C:\Users \<username> \Videos \Captures  
You can quickly access:  
• Open File Explorer ( Windows + E ) 
• Navigate to Videos → Captures,  
or type directly in the address bar:  
%userprofile% \Videos \Captures  
Files have the .mp4 extension and are named automatically (e.g.: AppName - Date - Time.mp4).  
Verifying video captures  
After stopping the recording:  
• A notification appears in the top right corner.  
     Click on it → the video clip opens.  
• You can also view all clips by:  
Windows + G  → Capture → See my captures  
Additional options (duration, quality, audio)  
You can adjust the recording settings:  
1. Go to Settings → Gaming → Captures.  
2. You can set:  
o Captures save location;  
o Video quality (Standard / High);  
o Frame rate (30 FPS / 60 FPS);  
o Audio capture: microphone + system sound or just image;  
o Maximum recording duration (up to 4 hours).  
Important limitations  
    Game Bar cannot record the entire screen or an empty desktop.  
It records only active windows (applications).  
    Does not work in some system applications (e.g.: File Explorer, Task Manager).  
    Recording is limited to a single active window – if you change the application, it may stop recording.  
Useful shortcuts  
--- Page 168 ---
Action  Shortcut  Description  
Open Game Bar  Windows + G  Opens the main panel  
Start/Stop recording  Windows + Alt + R  Starts or stops the video  
Turn microphone on/off  Windows + Alt + M  Records audio or not  
Take a screenshot  Windows + Alt + PrtScn  Captures the current image  
Open Captures folder  %userprofile% \Videos \Captures  Video files location  
Recommendations for testers / QA  
   Use Windows + Alt + R  when you reproduce a visual or behavioral defect.  
   Add the .mp4 file directly into JIRA / SharePoint as visual evidence.  
   Name the file before upload:  
[TestID]_[Feature]_[DefectID].mp4  
   You can use the clips for UAT evidence or defect reproduction steps.  
Quick Summary  
1. Open the test application — 
2. Start Game Bar Windows + G  
3. Start Recording    or Windows + Alt + R  
4. Stop Recording    or Windows + Alt + R  
5. Open the video file %userprofile% \Videos \Captures  
03. Test Manager and Jira integration from Plan View  
Description of the configuration and integration process of UiPath Test Manager with Jira (Xray), using the 
Plan View platform for the automatic synchronization of requirements and tests between the two systems.  
     Login and accessing Test Manager  
Users connect to the UiPath Cloud platform and access the Test Manager application from the main menu. 
This represents the starting point for creating and managing testing projects.  
   Creating folders for projects  
For each Jira project, a dedicated folder is created in Test Manager, having the same name to ensure 
correspondence between systems. Access rights for users and groups are defined and custom fields 
necessary for synchronization are configured (e.g. Link, S tatus, Label, Test Run Status).  
    Test Manager integration with Jira in Plan View  
--- Page 169 ---
Integration is performed through the Plan View platform, in the Integration section, and involves configuring 
connections between Jira projects and related Test Manager folders.  
Two main types of integration are managed:  
• Test Manager Requirements  – syncing requirements from Jira to Test Manager.  
• Test Manager Test Cases  – syncing tests generated in Test Manager to Jira/Xray.  
     Test Manager Requirements  
This section allows the automatic import of requirements defined in Jira into the Test Manager structure.  
By configuring routes (Artifact Routing), each Jira project is associated with the corresponding folder in 
Test Manager, allowing the automatic update of requirements.  
     Test Manager Test Cases  
In this stage, tests created or generated in Test Manager are automatically exported to Jira, in dedicated Xray 
subfolders (Test Manager Drafts).  
The bidirectional integration ensures full traceability between requirements and test scenarios.  
   Final Result  
After complete configuration, each project has an active link between Jira and UiPath Test Manager, 
allowing:  
• full visibility over requirements and tests,  
• automatic update of statuses,  
• unitary management of the testing process.  
    Synchronized projects  
Jira Project  Test Manager Folder  
SCRUM Administrarea Riscurilor  Scrum Administrarea Riscurilor  
SCRUM LibraPay  SCRUM LibraPay  
SCRUM_Administrare credite  Scrum Administrare Credite  
Scrum_Alte_Divizii  Scrum Alte Divizii  
SCRUM_Analiza Credite  Scrum Analiza Credite  
SCRUM_Carduri  Scrum Carduri  
--- Page 170 ---
Jira Project  Test Manager Folder  
SCRUM_Conformitate  Scrum Conformitate  
Scrum_CP  Scrum CP  
SCRUM_Decontari  Scrum Decontari  
SCRUM_Digital_HUB  Scrum Digital Hub  
Scrum_Digitalizare_Fluxuri_Clienti  Scrum Digitalizare Fluxuri Clienti  
SCRUM_LibraWallet  Scrum LibraWallet  
Scrum_MBK  Scrum MBK  
SCRUM_Operatiuni  Scrum Operatiuni  
Scrum_IBK  Scrum_IBK  
SCRUM Flow  CreditFlow  
SCRUM_Digital  Scrum Digital  
SCRUM_CRM  Scrum CRM  
Proiecte Waterfall  Proiecte Waterfall  
Scrum_Creatio_Flows  Scrum Creatio Deschidere client  
1. Test Manager -Uipath  
     Login to UiPath Test Manager  
1. Access the UiPath Cloud platform: https://cloud.uipath.com  
2. Authentication: Enter one of the created users for which we already have licenses, the password and 
then Sign In.  
3. Navigate to Test Manager: From the main menu select Test Manager.  
   Creating folders for projects  
--- Page 171 ---
1. After accessing the Test Manager Submenu, page navigation takes you straight to the "Projects" 
menu  
2. Click on "Create new project" and fill in the project name - as much as possible it should be the same 
name as the project name in Jira. The prefix fills automatically with the first letters of each word (if 
only two letters are filled in it is mandatory t o manually add one more letter/digit)  
3. Click "Create" and check the folder's appearance in the list.  
4. Open the folder and access the "Project Settings" -"Manage Access" option and grant rights to all 
users using the "Assign users/groups" option  
5. Add the "Test Manager QM" Group - then click the Add button in the bottom right corner.  
6. Also in "Project Settings" access "Custom field definition" - adding settings in this page is done to 
receive on each "Requirement" and "Test Case" the information created in Jira. Ex: Link for US and 
LX, Status, Label and Test Run Status. Adding settings i s done manually, step by step and can be 
copied from any other already created folder.  
I also attached an example of how they can be added.  
Settings for another already created folder:  
After finalizing all changes on the folder, we must perform the integration of Test Manager with Jira from 
Plan View.  
After the synchronization is performed, all requirements from Jira that do not have Live, Postponed and 
Ready for Release status will appear in the newly created folder.  
2. Jira Integration from Plan View  
Test manager integration with Jira is performed from Plan View 
https://planview.libra.bank:8443/?continue#/home  
Login data:  
Access Home Button: Integration  
Modifications for integration are performed only in: Test Manager Requirements and Test Manager Test 
Case  
Modifications are performed on both sections:  
1. Test Manager Requirements:  requirements written in Jira are imported into Test manager.  
• UiPath Jira Story Collection -Manage Projects  In Available Projects we find the Scrum 
projects/teams that have not been added for integration and in Project Collection those that have 
already been added.  
Select from Available Projects the project/Scrum Team you want to add in Project Collection by accessing 
the Selected > button, Done.  
After the modification was performed, the Save button is accessed.  
• Uipath Test Manager - Manage Projects  
In Available Projects we find the folders that have not been added for integration and in Project Collection 
those that have already been added.  
--- Page 172 ---
Select from Available Projects the newly created folder for adding in Project Collection by accessing the 
Selected > button, Done.  
After the modification was performed, the Save button is accessed.  
After the Scrum projects/teams and the new created folders have been added we can start the integration 
between Jira and Test Manager on the Test Manager Requirements section by selecting the Artifact Routing 
option.  
After selecting the Artifact Routing option, the list below is displayed with the projects that already have the 
integration performed - The projects from Jira with the folders created for each project in test manager.  
In Uipath Jira Story Collection and Uipath Test Manager Requirement Collection the Scrum project/team is 
added using: Route More Projects  
• Select the Scrum project/team(Jira) that has not been added  
• Select the newly created folder for the Project added from Jira  
After the Scrum team and the folder created in Test Manager have been selected, access the Connect button, 
so the integration is finalized, then the Done button in the top right corner of the page.  
After the integration in Test Manager Requirements has been performed between Jira and Test Manager for 
the new folder, we must verify in Test manager that the synchronization of the folder starts in test manager 
and in the Requirement Submenu on the newly  created folder the requirements are synchronized.  
2. Test Manager test Cases:  Scenarios generated with test manager are imported into Jira  
• Uipath Jira Test Collection:  here the Xray Project is added, nothing is added or modified.  
• Uipath Test Manager Manage Projects -Manage Projects  
In Available Projects we find the folders that have not been added for integration and in Project Collection 
those that have already been added.  
Select from Available Projects the newly created folder for adding in Project Collection by accessing the 
Selected > button, Done.  
After the modification was performed, the Save button is accessed.  
After the newly created folders have been added we can start the integration between Jira and Test Manager 
on the Test Manager Test Case section by selecting the Artifact Routing option.  
After selecting the Artifact Routing option, the list below is displayed with the Links from Xray for each 
folder individually The newly created folder in Test Manager that already has the integration performed.  
In Xray - Xray Test Repository each Scrum already has a folder created / or a new one is created. Each 
folder created for Scrum Projects/Teams must obligatorily have a Sub folder named "Test Manager Drafts".  
In Uipath Test Collection and Uipath Test Manager Test Case Collection the Jira subfolders and the Test 
manager Folders are added using: Route More Projects  
• Select the Xray subfolder that has currently not been added  
• Select the folder from Test Manager Created for the project on which we will generate the scenarios.  
Then save from the top of the page using the "Save" button.  
--- Page 173 ---
After the integration in Test Manager Test Case has been performed between Jira and Test Manager for the 
new folder, we can verify in Test manager. On the Folder where the Requirements and Test Case integration 
was performed, In Test Manager select the Req uirements Option, select any requirement for which we 
generate a Test Case.  
After the Tests have been generated, we select a single scenario just to ensure that the synchronization is 
performed correctly and appears in Xray in the dedicated folder.  
